---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 3: Ambushed"
order: 3
---

I discovered that the horse carriage was travelling along the very road that was used to send me to the Wei camp a few days ago. When I saw the familiar city in the distance, I held onto the curtain and watched it for quite  a long time. 

That year, the reason I managed to survive was because of my **Yi Zumu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="姨祖母 - paternal grandaunt"></sup>, Empress Dowager Liu. Perhaps Father had long expected it, as he sent me into the Palace to accompany the Empress Dowager, just te day before the incident happened. When the Minister of Justice came over, the Empress Dowager ordered people to lock the Palace’s gate. Separatd by a wall, she cursed and berated those that came together with the Late Emperor and Empress Bian.

The Late Emperor was after all a filial son, and did not come over to arrest anyone anymore. However, the Heaven had not been kind to me all the time. When I was fifteen years old, the Empress Dowager passed away. 

Empress Bian then continued her revenge. 

Before Empress Dowager Liu died, she had made the Late Emperor promise to marry me off to a good family, and the Late Emperor agreed. I had indeed married into a good family. The Han Clan of Laiyang, even though it was far from Chang'an, was still considered a prominent clan in the area and the head of the family was also the head of the clan. 

It’s just that my husband, Han Guang, was a fool.

He was dumb, clumsy and liked to giggle foolishly. When someone talked to him, one had to repeat it several times for him to understand that one was talking to him, and only then would he be able to continue the conversation. This was the marriage given by the enemy, of course i wouldn’t like it, but i didn’t hate this husband.

He treated me well. Every morning when I woke up, he would look at me with a foolish smile and mutter, “Ah Jin is really good looking.” ...Thinking about these, I sighed softly in my heart.

I did not know how he was now. After all, we had lived together for a few years, so it would be a lie if one did not have any sentiments. However, in this chaotic world, none of us had any choice, just like how I was forced to leave Chang'an and marry into Laiyang, those years ago. 

I heard that after I reached the Wei Camp, Wei Jue let Han Tian stay in Laiyang as the Governor.

In that city, the only change was probably that the foolish Second Son of the Han Family no longer had a wife.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Wei Jue’s troops had a rather resounding reputation of not disturbing the commoners. 

After a few days of journey, I gained a deep understanding. Cheng Mao was leading an army of 300 soldiers and accommodation was a big concern. However, he would never disturb any commoners, only eat to fill himself using dry rations, rest outdoors and would never let his troops’ horses trample the farmland. Compared with the bad habits of other warlords and roving bandits, Wei Jue’s troops were simply refined and cultured. 

Of course, in this troubled world, even if one was to know one’s place , it does not assure one’s safe and sound.

As we were nearing the boundary of Yongzhou, a group of people of around two hundred suddenly rushed out from the two hills. The leader shouted: “Leave the carriage and the wagons and you will be spared from death!”

Cheng Mao was furious and ordered to prepare for battle. The soldiers immediately circled the carriage and set up a formation. 

Although those people were fierce, one was able to tell that they were just a mob armed with simple and crude weapons that only knew how to  charge forward. One could see Cheng Mao rushing out of the formation with a loud roar, waving the sword in his hand, and the leader had already been beheaded by him. 

Seeing that the situation is not in their favor, the rest of them wanted to disperse. Cheng Mao constructed the archers to release arrows and shout out orders. He then ordered the troops to pursue them and in a short moment, more than hundred people had been captured. 

“I am under the command of Wei **ChengXiang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="prime minister"></sup>, the Great Marquis Moting<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="This is his title"></sup>, Cheng Mao!” Cheng Mao shouted loudly as he led his horse. I didn’t hear what he said after that, as I was a little surprised when I heard his title and position. 

Amazing, I thought to myself.  Now even a low ranking Deputy General(<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="now she uses Shu Jiang 属将"></sup>) can become the Marquis Moting. Wei Jue indeed could cover the skies with his hands. 

Cheng Mao was still shouting, saying that the Heavenly One (the Emperor) had decided on the Yongzhou to be the capital and wanted them to surrender and pay allegiance to the Imperial Court instead of rebelling. Those rebelling bandits had already been captured and the rest of them had used all their energy to beg for mercy. When Cheng Mao saw the surrendering, he instructed the troops to tie them up with ropes and had them escorted along. 

<div class="author-note">
Yong Zhou means Yong Province and since the Emperor wanted it to become the capital, thus the name will be change to Yong Du that means Yong Capital
</div>

“Mao is incompetent, has let Furen suffered a shock.” After the incident had been resolved, Cheng Mao got off his horse, greeted me and apologised to me in front of my carriage.

<div class="author-note">
'Mao' as in his name. People back then used their name instead of using 'I' (我/Wǒ) when speaking as a form of respect
</div>

With those real swords and spears flashing in front of one’s eyes, it would be a lie to say that one was not scared. With the curtains separating us, I calmed my heart down before speaking, “Why would **Jiangjun** blame yourself? If **Jiangjun** was not here, I would have lost my life.” 

Cheng Mao said: “There is a village up front, may Furen be patient as one would be able to rest soon.”

I nodded: “Many thanks to **Jiangjun**’s efforts.”

Cheng Mao bowed again before retreating, and not long after that, the carriage started to move again.

With more than a hundred captives, the journey was rather difficult. However, Cheng Mao was not worried as it was a wide expanse of boundless plains up ahead that one could gallop unhindered. It would be unlikely for the troops to be attacked by anyone.

After less than ten *Li*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="1 Li = 500 m"></sup>, just as Cheng Mao said, there indeed was a village. Cheng Mao ordered the soldiers to guard the captives before commanding the troops to stop and rest. But not long after that, they discovered that a lot of people came over from the village and surrounded them.

Cheng Mao was startled, so he hurriedly alerted the soldiers to stand guard and sent someone to inquire.

It turned out to be a false alarm. These villagers came to express their gratitude when they heard that the troops had captured the rogue bandits that had been constantly committing evil deeds. 

“Ever since the chaos in Chang'an happened, there have been many bandits gathered in the nearby mountains and forests, looting passerby, and harassing the villagers. It was very unbearable. Now that **Jiangjun** has wiped out the evil doers, it is truly a blessing to the people.” The Village Head bowed to Cheng Mao in gratitude, expressing his thanks.

Cheng Mao helped the Village Head up and said, “We work under the command of Wei **ChengXiang** and **TianZi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="天子 - The Son of Heaven; The Emperor"></sup> is choosing a site for the capital. With the country stabilizing, it is natural to clean up the surrounding bandits and ensure the people’s safety.”

Upon hearing these words, all of the villagers praised them and rushed to feed the soldiers with food and drinks as thanks, but Cheng Mao tactfully declined. 

I sat in the carriage for a long time, and only after the villagers had dispersed, did I come out to stretch my muscles and limbs. 

“Furen.” Seeing me coming out, Cheng Mao was startled, then stepped forward to greet me. 

“I just came out of the carriage to catch some breath, **Jiangjun** no not need to be courteous.” 

Cheng Mao nodded and looked around before ordering someone to clean the stone slate under a nearby tree, and asked me to sit there. 

“Those people, how will **Jiangjun** handle them?” I asked. 

“Up ahead is the Administrative Division of Yongzhou. They will be handed over to the Governor there.” Cheng Mao replied.

I looked at him and smiled: “Every time **Jiangjun** encounters a bandit attack, will they be exhibited to the villagers after they are caught?”

Cheng Mao was startled and his eyes moved.

“It’s not like this every time.” His expression did not change as he continued, “If one passed by a dangerous area, one would not be able to bring along captives. In order to prevent evil deeds from continuing, one has to kill them on the spot.”

“This is what **Da GongZi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Eldest Young Master of a family. In this case, Wei Tan"></sup> said, do evil and hide, do good and keep a good name.” He added.

I was stunned for a moment, before smiling, “So it’s like that.”

Cheng Mao said nothing more and bowed to me before walking away. 

 <p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After the captives were handed over to the *Jun Shou*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="senior provincial official"></sup> of the Administrative Division, Cheng Mao escorted the carriage and the troops and officially entered Yongzhou. 

Yongzhou was close to Luoyang, where since ancient times it had been a thriving region. There was also an interim Imperial Palace in the city.  As to why the Emperor had set the capital in Yongzhou, the story must be told from the beginning of this chaos.

When the Late Emperor was still alive, the matter of the succession and heir had already caused uproar in the Court. My **Yi Zumu**, the Empress Dowager Liu’s heart was set on the Eldest Prince Chen. The Late Emperor on the other hand favoured Prince Zhen, who was born to Empress Bian.

Empress Bian came from a tyrannical maiden family, and over the years the Bian Family had won over a large number of officials. The older brother of Empress Bian was even appointed as **Da Sima**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="大司马 - the Grand Marshall; Minister of War; the highest position a military officer can hold"></sup> by the Late Emperor. 

It was during the end of the year when I was married off that the Late Emperor suddenly passed away. The Fu Family had been exterminated,  Empress Dowager Liu had passed away, so there was no obstacle for Empress Bian anymore. She took out the Late Emperor’s posthumous edict, and made Prince Zhen the new Emperor, and bestowed the title of Prince of Hejian upon Prince Chen.

Discarding the elder son and establishing the younger one, the originality of the Late Emperor’s posthumous edict that seemed like it came out of thin air was questioned, which was spiritedly discussed in the Court. On the day of the enthronement, the Imperial Censor<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="御史(Yù shǐ)"></sup> , Wang Rong challenged the edict. In the fit of anger, the **Da Sima** Bian Wei beheaded Wang Rong with a sword.

Blood splattered in the Imperial Court. *One stone created a thousand wave*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="一石千浪(Yīshí qiānlàng) - (idiom)a small action created big consequences"></sup>.  Prince Chen’s biological mother, Empress Gao’s cousin<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="族兄(Zú xiōng) - elder male cousin from the same clan"></sup>, Gao Mi who is also the Commander of the Imperial Guard led an army of 5000 to surround the Imperial Palace and the **Da Sima**'s mansion. In a moment of desperation, Bian Wei sent off a man to send out a letter using the Emperor’s name to summon the Governor of LiangZhou, He Kui who was at that time quelling the riots in LongXi, to enter Chang'an and protect the Emperor. 

He Kui, who was only 700 Li (≈350 km)  away from Chang'an, led an army of 50,000 soldiers of LiangZhou to Changan after receiving the order. After three days of continuing battle between the He Kui army and the Imperial Army, the city was bathed with blood, and He Kui managed to break into Changan. At that time, **Da SiMa** Bian Wei had been killed by Gao Mi, Empress Bian was poisoned to death, and the entire Chang'an fell into He Kui’s hand. He Kui was a cruel and heartless man. After gaining Chang'an, he granted himself as **TaiShi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="太师(Tài shī) - (imperial tutor/Grand Perceptor)"></sup>. He would sleep lasciviously in the Inner Palace everyday while supporting the new Emperor to govern from the Imperial Throne. If any official raised just a word to object to him, they would be mercilessly killed. 

The Imperial Court was *as precarious as a pile of eggs*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="危如累卵(Wēirúlěiluǎn) - (idiom) in an extremely precarious situaution"></sup>. At this moment, the Governor of BingZhou, Zhong Yuan claims to have an Emperor’s edict for suppressing rebelliion, and was raising his banner in the name of loyalty and righteousness. 

He Kui was furious when he heard the news, and immediately abolished the Emperor and enthroned the Prince of Hejian as the new Emperor. Then, he started a fire at the Imperial Palace which burned down the entire palace, forcing the Emperor to move to LuoYang. 

This move only poured oil on the fire. Letters and words were spreaded to hundreds of Administrative Divisions and numerous troops from all over the country responded to Zhong Yuan and gathered in Bingzhou. 

Even though He Kui was fierce, his toughness was nothing more than the common bravery of Liangzhou. A few months later, Luoyang was captured by the rebels. But at this time, these formidable military forces were no longer the ones who moved with the Emperor’s command. Thus, the fights of the warlords began. Fire was set on the city gates, innocent bystanders were dragged into it and the Imperial Palace of Luoyang became scattered ashes and dispersed smoke. 

The Emperor fled everywhere until he met Wei Jue. At that time, Wei Jue had already occupied Yongzhou. He then repaired the interim Imperial Palace, welcomed the Emperor and settled down hundreds of officials. The Emperor was currently staying in that Palace and Yongzhou had then changed its name to Yongdu.

Actually in my eyes, ever since leaving Changan, other places in the world, even if they looked like a fairyland, I would still regard it as the wild countryside. Therefore, when the majestically  galloped carriage led by Cheng Mao entered Yongdu, my thoughts were completely not on the scenery at all. 

I was pondering upon the matter of meeting the Wei Clan after entering the city.
