---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 38: Luoyang (Part 2)"
order: 38
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /DILOANH/c38/
---

When he speaks polite words like this to me, he always sounds insincere. So without dwelling on it, I asked in surprise, “When did Fujun return?”

“Just arrived,” Wei Tan replied, his brow showing signs of fatigue.

I glanced at the *water clock*, realizing that it was just past midnight.

<div class="author-note">
滴漏(dīlòu) - water clock/clepsydra; a device that measures time by the flow of water"
</div>

“Why didn't Fujun write in advance?” I got up and grabbed a coat, draping it over myself.

“I had to leave in haste, without time to send someone,” Wei Tan replied, adjusting the candle, and the light suddenly became bright. Then, he stood up and walked to the front of the chair, taking the wide coat.

I slept alone in this bedroom, so I didn't pay much attention to my appearance. At this moment, my hair was disheveled, and my clothes were in disarray. Seeing Wei Tan standing alone in front of the chair, I thought to myself, should a virtuous wife immediately rush over to attend to her husband, showing warmth and concern, when he returns in the middle of the night?

“Furen doesn't need to get up. I'm going to take a bath,” Wei Tan said as if he had eyes in the back of his head, breaking the silence.

My heart eased a bit, but I still felt the need to maintain appearances. “En... Did Fujun have a meal on the way? Shall **Qie** instruct the kitchen to prepare some soup?” I suggested.

“No need,” Wei Tan said as he wore a simple robe, and glanced at me. “Have a rest, Furen.” With that, he walked out the door.

I heard voices of the attendants outside. After sitting for a moment, I took off my coat and lay down.

I was awakened halfway through my sleep, so I was feeling quite tired. I wished that I didn't have to do anything at that moment… With that thought in mind, I closed my eyes again.

<br>

I initially intended to take a quick nap and then show my attentiveness when Wei Tan returned. However, unexpectedly, I fell into a deep sleep and when I opened my eyes, it was already morning.

Just as I was about to stretch and wake up, I suddenly noticed that Wei Tan was lying right beside me, sleeping soundly.

My feet and hands, which I had just stretched out, froze in place. I carefully withdrew them and, after a moment, shifted my body slightly. Although we had agreed to continue our marital relationship when we left Huaiyang, the combination of traveling and battles meant that we had spent very few nights together. As a result, I still wasn't entirely accustomed to sleeping next to him.

With a slight distance between us, Wei Tan's profile was illuminated by the faint light coming through the window, revealing distinct contours.

I watched him quietly, suddenly feeling the novelty of this perspective. With his back to the light, his eyebrows and eyes were hidden in shadows. His nose stood straight like a mountain peak, and below it, his lips and chin displayed an elegant shape. I also noticed the graceful curve of his Adam's apple on his neck…

He moved slightly, and I froze, quickly closing my eyes.

The bed moved slightly, and I had a vague sense that Wei Tan had turned over. The breath... it felt like it had shifted towards my side.

My heart raced, and I tried even harder to feign sleep.

I wasn't sure if Wei Tan had turned over in his sleep or if he had actually woken up. After a while, I contemplated opening my eyes to see what was happening, but then I heard him move again.

That was close... I thought to myself. However, not long after, a hand reached out and wrapped around my waist.

A shiver ran down my skin.

That hand was restless, sliding up my waist to my back, and then gently caressing my hair. Finally, it suddenly pinched my nose.

Unable to breathe, I could no longer pretend, so I opened my eyes.

“Has Furen awakened?” Wei Tan released his hand, and in the morning light, he wore a lazy smile.

I touched my nose, knowing that I had once again been played by him. I felt embarrassed and annoyed. However, I still had to maintain the appearance of just waking up and asked in surprise, “Why did Fujun wake up so early?”

“As a traveler, I am not accustomed to sleeping in,” Wei Tan stretched lazily, and I heard the cracking sound as he loosened his joints. After a moment, he glanced at me. “I woke up just as dawn broke and haven't been able to fall back asleep.”

Me: “.....”

The embarrassment on my face intensified, as I widened my eyes in disbelief.

However, Wei Tan paid no attention to me. With a triumphant smile on his lips, he got up from the bed. I watched as he walked to the front of the chair, removing his sleepwear. His bare upper body glistened with a delicate sheen in the morning light.

My wet nurse had once said, “Don't look unless it's appropriate.” I thought about turning my gaze away, but couldn't resist stealing another glance. This isn't improper, I thought to myself, as we are husband and wife... Wei Tan was selecting a few garments from the chair, seemingly contemplating which one to wear. I couldn't help but observe the muscles on his back ripple with each movement—strong yet agile, compact yet fluid. Suddenly, I couldn't help but feel that if Wei Tan were to engage in marital relations with me, I wouldn't be at a disadvantage…

“Is it pleasing to the eyes?” Wei Tan suddenly asked.

Me: “.....”

I really wanted to turn his face around to check if there was a mirror placed on it for peeping.

“What pleasing to the eye?” I replied, cleverly admitting my foolishness.

Wei Tan put on a finely woven linen robe, fastening the belt and turning towards me.

“I was asking about the clothes, they're newly made,” he smiled.

“Fujun looks exceptionally handsome in this linen robe,” I praised sincerely, climbing along the pole, nodding earnestly.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In name, Luoyang belongs to the imperial court, but everyone knows that the court is under the control of the Wei Family.

While Wei Tan and I were having breakfast in the hall, a messenger arrived with an invitation. It was from Zhou Kang, the Prefect of Luoyang, inviting Wei Tan to a banquet tonight, to give Wei Tan a welcome dinner.

Wei Tan glanced at the invitation and accepted it.

I finished the porridge in my bowl, wiped the corners of my mouth with a handkerchief, and asked Wei Tan, “Fujun originally mentioned returning to Yongdu. One wonders when we will set off?”

Wei Tan replied, “No rush. We need to stay in Luoyang for a few more days.”

“Very well,” I said.

However, Wei Tan continued to look at me, his gaze seemingly filled with inquiries.

“Fujun has something to say?” I asked.

“Nothing,” Wei Tan withdrew his gaze, lowering his head to continue eating his porridge.

After finishing breakfast, Cheng Mao approached and informed us that everything was ready to go out.

“I will go to the city walls to inspect the defenses,” Wei Tan said to me.

“**Xiongzhang**, I'll go too,” Wei An, who had been quietly eating, finally spoke up.

Wei Tan agreed but looked at me.

I had no interest in things like inspecting city defenses, so I smiled dutifully at Wei Tan and said, “Allow **Qie** to help Fujun change clothes.”

<br>

Wei Tan, unlike those dandy young men in Chang'an, didn't fuss over selecting a leather belt for half the day when going out. Assisting him with dressing was actually quite effortless. I simply needed to find a robe from the chest that appeared less worn and substantial enough.

He put on the robe, and I helped him tidy it before fastening the belt. Wei Tan was much taller than me, so I raised my arm to adjust the fabric of his chest, pulling it slightly and then securing it in place.

No one spoke a word, and as I lifted my gaze, I noticed Wei Tan looking at me.

“Is this robe too tight?” I observed how his shoulders and chest stretched the fabric of the robe, leaving no wrinkles. It reminded me of the scene earlier in the morning when he had woken up.

“Not tight,” Wei Tan replied, “It fits just right.”

I nodded in response and went to fetch the leather belt.

“Wu Zhang has passed away, and his brother Wu Kun has succeeded him.”

I paused for a moment, lifting my head to meet Wei Tan's gaze. “Jiyuan and Wu Kun had a close relationship. After Wu Kun ascend the (leader) positon, he appointed Ji Yuan as the *Zhong Hujun*.”

<div class="author-note">
"中护军" (Zhong Hu Jun) refers to the position of the Central (Zhong) Protector General, responsible for overseeing and commanding the central army, ensuring the defense and security of the central region
</div>

The suddenness of his statement caught me off guard, and I nodded in a daze, fastening the leather belt around his waist.

He continued, “I only know this much. If Furen has any questions, feel free to speak your mind.”

I looked up at him, feeling surprised. He was right. During breakfast, when I asked him about our departure for Yongdu, my intention was indeed to inquire about Pei Qian. However, I quickly realized that it would be awkward for Wei Tan to talk about Pei Qian, so I decided to find out privately. Therefore, when Wei Tan mentioned that we would be staying for a few more days, I didn't pursue the topic further.

But I had forgotten that Wei Tan was a perceptive person who was well-aware of my intentions. He noticed it and, without any reservations, brought it up in front of me.

Is this considered being frank, or probing?

A surge of anger rose within me, and I replied coldly, “How does Fujun know whether **Qie** has something to say or not?”

Wei Tan was taken aback, his gaze fixed on me, his dark eyes filled with intensity.

The surroundings fell into an instant silence. I averted my gaze, lowering my head to fasten his leather belt.

“I'm leaving,” Wei Tan said calmly as he strapped his sword to his waist. After speaking, he headed towards the door.

A thought flashed through my mind as I hurriedly caught up to him, “Fujun!”

Wei Tan turned around.

Despite feeling annoyed and angry, I didn't want to sour our relationship with him.

“You...” I wanted to say thank you, but as the words reached my lips, I changed it to, “Come back early.” With that, I bowed.

“En,” Wei Tan responded with a nonchalant tone, his emotions unclear.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

I was not someone inclined towards introspection, but when Wei Tan's messenger returned to inform me that they were heading straight to Zhou Kang's residence for the banquet, I felt a tinge of regret.

I cannot help but speculate, was Wei Tan really annoyed?

A voice in my heart says, “So what if he's annoyed? Who asked him to probe with those words?”

But another voice says, “Perhaps he is genuinely feeling wronged?”

Whether he feels wronged or not, he's not a child. I feel a bit restless. I took a few bites of dinner and absentmindedly put down my chopsticks.

I walked out of the courtyard, with the setting sun hanging on the horizon. The clouds were a mixture of purple and gray, their colors indistinct and blended. The evening breeze blew intermittently, causing the autumn grass on the ground to tremble. No matter how you looked at it, there was a somewhat desolate feeling in the air.

“How come Furen is here?"
”a voice came from behind, and as I turned around, it was indeed Xu **Ji**.

She walked towards me with a smile and greeted me with a bow. “One heard that **Da Gongzi** is not around, and since **Qie** had nothing to do, **Qie** thought of asking Furen if she would be weaving tonight?”

Only then did I remember that I had something to do.

“Weave,” I smiled and readily agreed, “Of course, I will weave.”

<br>

The courtyard was quiet at night, except for the "creaking" sound of the weaving machine and the melodious singing of the nightingales outside the window.

“Furen's weaving technique is not correct. It's prone to knots,” as I was working, Xu **Ji** pointed out while offering guidance, “Allow **Qie** to give Furen a teaching.”

I agreed and stepped aside, observing as Xu **Ji** took the shuttle from my hands and deftly interwove it between the warp and weft threads.

As I continued to watch, I couldn't help but raise my head and gaze towards the outside of the door. The moon was already nearing its zenith. Was the feast still not over?

“Is Furen waiting for **Da Gongzi**?”

I snapped back to reality. Xu **Ji** paused her weaving and looked at me.

I blushed and smiled sheepishly, “How did **Ji** knows?”

“How could **Qie** not know?” Xu **Ji**'s voice was gentle as she spoke, “**Qie** used to be the same, always looking towards the door.”

“Oh?” I understood that she was referring to Wei Zhao.

Xu **Ji** smiled and gazed towards the door, seemingly lost in memories with a hint of profound meaning. “But since **Qie** never saw him, One's thoughts gradually faded,” she said softly.

I sensed that there was more to her words, and as I was lost in my own thoughts, suddenly Ah Yuan came in from outside. “Furen, **Da Gongzi** has returned.” 

“Oh?” My heart relaxed, and clarity replaced the darkness that had clouded my mind.

Xu **Ji** glanced at Ah Yuan, a fleeting look of surprise crossing her face. Then, she turned to me and smiled, “Since **Da Gongzi** has returned, **Qie** will take One's leave.” With that, she stood up and bowed to me.

I left Wu Furen's courtyard and headed straight to my own. Just as I stepped out of the gate, I came face to face his attendant Wang Hui.

“Furen,” he bowed and said, “**Da Gongzi** is drunk and has already returned to his room.”

I nodded in acknowledgment and continued on my way. However, unexpectedly, before I could enter my own courtyard, I ran into the steward.

“Furen,” he bowed to me, looking somewhat uneasy, and said, “**Da Gongzi** brought back several beauties from the feast. He is currently drunk, Furen, look...”

I paused for a moment, following his gesture. Behind him, about twenty feet away, stood five young women in their late teens, all with exquisite and beautiful features.

Perhaps noticing the steward's attitude towards me, the women exchanged glances and after a moment, they approached me and greeted me with respectful bows. Their melodious voices filled the air as they said, “Greetings, Furen.”
