---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 42: Being Frank and Sincere"
order: 42
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /DILOANH/c42/
---

Wei Tan looked at me in surprise, with a blush on his face, but his eyes brightened.

“Furen wants to see?” His voice was deep, with a smile that seemed both like a smile and not.

I provocatively smiled and said, “Does Fujun wanna go back on his words?”

After Wei Tan lightly nibbled on my lips, he tried to get up. However, I didn't let go. With a twist, I turned him over and pressed him down on the bed.

“**Qie** wants to see for myself.” I placed my hands on his chest and looked at his surprised eyes, and chuckled softly.

Wei Tan gazed at me intently, his Adam's apple rolled, and he didn't resist.

I sat on his lap, and my gaze slowly moved downward.

After the entanglement just now, Wei Tan's robe was already open, revealing his sturdy chest with a thin layer of sweat, glistening with a honey-colored luster under the light.

My throat suddenly swallowed, dryly. I was like a child playing with a doll, carefully and curiously, unbuttoning the clothes on the toy's body. Wei Tan's arms were freed from his sleeves, and his compact muscles extended from his broad shoulders. At the end, an eager and rough hand ventured under my skirt.

“Don't be naughty.” I pried his hand away and pressed it on either side.

Then... I continued to look down. He was only wearing loose trousers, loosely tied around his waist. Further down, there was something that bulged and propped up the crotch area.

My breath became hot, and sweat trickled down my neck. I kept my gaze fixed on that spot, unable to lift my eyes. The room was unusually silent, yet there was an undercurrent of emotions that made my heart beat erratically.

As I reached out to untie the belt on Wei Tan's trousers, I could clearly feel him inhale sharply, his chest rising and falling.

My hands felt a bit cold as I loosened the belt and slowly pulled apart the fabric, exposing what lay beneath to the light.

As for men's things, I have actually seen them before. In the corners of courtyards and remote places in the market, there would always be parents who couldn't make it to the restroom in time and let their young children relieve themselves on the spot. Whenever I encountered such a situation, my mother would cover my eyes with her hand and scare me, saying that seeing it would cause me to have "pin eyes". Despite this, I managed to catch a glimpse a few times, and I felt indifferent about it, thinking it was just a small thing, not as big as my fist. As I grew older, when I became intimate with Pei Qian, I found out that the thing could become hard. However, even though Pei Qian liked to be affectionate, he was still a gentleman at heart. When I wanted to see, he blushed and glared at me, saying that an unmarried woman seeing it would cause her to have "pin eyes"...

<div class="author-note">
"Pin eyes" here is a euphemism for small eyes, and it's used as a way to discourage young children from seeing intimate body parts.
</div>

Now, I finally know what that thing will become. To be honest, uh, it looks quite strange. It's thicker and longer than I expected, standing upright, and under my gaze, it seems to be getting more alive…

“How is it?” Wei Tan's voice was deep and hoarse, holding back something. His hand slipped inside my clothes, untying the knot. My attire was already disheveled, with the neckline partly open. With his movements, the silk clothing almost slid off. His palm was rough and powerful, causing a slight shiver in my body. I could feel the moistness welling up from within, indescribably delightful.

I still stared at that thing, my throat dry and burning: “Um... it looks like a worm.”

“A worm?” Wei Tan chuckled softly, his hand caressing my waist, as he moved slowly, “Is there a worm this big?”

I fell silent, feeling my ears burning. I acted boldly, and he responded with even more audacity.

“Ah Jin...” Wei Tan's voice was somewhat hurried, “Let it in.”

My face felt like it was on fire as I recalled the pain from the last time.

Just as I hesitated, suddenly, Wei Tan grabbed my arm and pinned me beneath him.

“Ah Jin...” He nibbled on my neck while lifting my legs. The hot breath swirled around my neck, enchanting and enticing, “Don't be afraid…”

I was gasping heavily, unable to reply, my hands gripping tightly onto his shoulders.

Wei Tan's muscles tightened, and he suddenly thrust forward.

I let out a muffled moan as the canopy above us swayed with his movements, and in the candlelight, a radiant hue gradually filled the air…

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The nightingale is singing outside the window.

Oh... no, it's the oriole.

Hmm, that doesn't seem right either…

I curled up inside the blanket, and when Wei Tan withdrew his arm, I remained still.

He moved very gently, seemingly afraid to wake me up. After a while, he got up from the bed. Shortly after, I heard the rustling sound of clothes being put on from the other side of the screen.

Not long after, there was a light knock at the door.

“**Da Gongzi...” A servant's voice came from outside, but after a moment, there was no more sound.

After making sure that I was the only one left in the room, I cautiously poked my head out from under the blanket.

Pretending to be asleep earlier wasn't because I was afraid of awkwardness, but I was wary of Wei Tan, that lustful person, teasing me again. Losing my temper again wouldn't be a trivial matter.

I thought about it and slowly shifted into a more comfortable position. The pain was still there, but not as bad as last time. Instead, there was something indescribable, or perhaps... satisfaction?

I supported my sore waist and looked upwards, my heart still pounding loudly in my chest.

I have already forgotten the details of last night, only remembering the deep impact. I felt like a glutinous rice ball simmering in a pot, getting crushed, then being kneaded again.

Wei Tan was nibbling on my ear, calling my name over and over again.

When I couldn't take it anymore, I begged him and said, “Please spare me, Fujun.” He said to me, “Call me Ah Tan.” But when I called him that way, he became even more excited and intensified his actions.

I trembled under him, unable to restrain myself from moaning. As the dizzying sensation overwhelmed me like river tides, I almost lost consciousness. I felt quite embarrassed, thinking that if I looked at myself in the mirror at that moment, I would surely think I had gone mad.

Wei Tan went out for a trip and told me upon his return that we would set off for Yongdu the day after tomorrow.

I was very surprised. We are going back to Yongdu already? But just last night, he told Jiumu that he would stay a little longer.

Wei Tan touched my hair and smiled softly by my ear, “Furen, do not be disappointed. Even when we return to Yongdu, **Weifu** will still treat Furen with sincerity.'”

I knew what he meant, and my face blushed with shyness.

Since we were leaving, we must get prepared today. I immediately informed the steward and asked him to assign servants to pack our things.

Originally, I planned to visit **Jiumu** and **San Yimu** to return the courtesy, but now there is no time. So, I had to send a letter to each of their houses, explaining the reason and expressing my apologies. In truth, I played a little trick. Technically, I could have hosted a banquet at home today or tomorrow, inviting both families to gather and maintain good relations. However, if I did that, I would inevitably have to let Qiao Ti meet Wei Tan again. Just thinking about her calculating gaze makes me utterly disinterested.

However, after they received my letter, they all came to visit me in person.

The first to arrive was **San Yimu**. 

She brought some local delicacies from Luoyang and asked me to enjoy them on the way: “These are precious items. Ah Jin has seen many things in Yongdu, but after giving it some thought, **Yimu** could only bring these pastries, as they cannot be found in Yongdu. Ah Jin, please don't refuse them.”

Among all these relatives, she was the most genuine and sincere in her treatment towards me. I accepted her gift, thanked her with a smile.

**San Yimu** held my hand, gazing at me intently, as if she was reminded of my mother. Her eyes welled up with tears again, but she didn't say anything, just let out a soft sigh.

“Ah Jin,” as she was about to leave, **Yimu** hesitated and said to me, “Your **Jiumu** is going through difficult times. If she ever asks for your help and you find it not too troublesome, it would be good to lend a hand. But if it becomes too much, you don't need to worry about it. **Yimu** can see that **Jiangjun** truly cares for you, and in this world, it's not easy for a woman to find a good husband. Some things cannot be shared, even if close relatives ask for them, you must not easily give them away.”

Her words carried a profound meaning, and the implication was crystal clear.

I nodded and smiled, saying, “Thank you **Yimu**. Ah Jin will remember it.”

Not long after, **Jiumu** also arrived. It was quite surprising as she came alone without bringing Qiao Ti with her.

She also brought me some candied fruit and other snacks for my leisure on the road.

After exchanging pleasantries, she looked at me and suddenly let out a soft sigh, “Ah Jin, now that you have married into a noble family, I hope everything goes smoothly for you. Your parents and your **Jiufu** in the netherworld should also be at peace.” After speaking, she lowered her head and dabbed her eyes with a handkerchief.

To be honest, I have always disliked it when people say that. It feels like they are implying that I've stumbled upon an enormous stroke of luck.

I don't reveal my thoughts; I simply respond, “**Shengnǚ**'s only wish is to not bring disgrace to the family's honor.”

**Jiumu** said, “Ah Jin, you are too modest. In the entire world today, apart from the royal family, the Wei Family is considered the top noble house, and I'm afraid no one dares to disagree with that.” She sighed again, “Ah Ti is not as fortunate as you. She's almost nineteen, and she's still waiting to get married.”

Finally, it's here. I looked at **Jiumu** with concern and asked, “This is something **Shengnǚ** has been wanting to ask as well. Why has **Biaomei** not chosen a husband yet?”

“It's not that she hasn't chosen a husband; she was previously engaged.” Jiumu explained, “It was your **Jiufu** who arranged the match, and the family she was supposed to marry into was one of the best families in Luoyang. However, later on, there was a rebellion, and that family suffered greatly, so the engagement was called off.”

I nodded and let out a soft sigh, saying, “The past is in the past, **Jiumu**, please accept my condolences. With **Biaomei**'s noble background, there will surely be someone worthy of becoming her partner.”

“There are indeed suitors,” **Jiumu*& said, “but the world has been troubled, and even prominent families have been scattered. Just when things were settling down a bit, your **Jiufu** passed away. As a widow and orphan, One stayed in Luoyang, and though there have been many marriage proposals, they have all been from mediocre families. The Qiao Family has had a distinguished reputation in Luoyang for a century, and I fear that I would bring shame to that legacy by accepting such matches. I would have no face to meet your **Jiufu** in the afterlife.” She sighed again, “And so, your **Biaomei**'s marriage has been delayed.”

“So it is like that,” I replied.

“Ah Jin,” **Jiumu** held my hand and said, “We have already seen countless families in Luoyang, but none are suitable matches. Nowadays, all the noble families aspire to go to Yongdu. Ah Jin, please help Ah Ti find a good match.”

Seeing her expression, I knew there was more to it, so I asked, “Does **Jiumu** have someone in mind who might be a suitable match?”

**Jiumu** smiled knowingly and seemed a bit embarrassed. She glanced around to make sure no one was nearby, then leaned closer and lightly covered her mouth with her silk fan. “Ah Jin, I heard that **Er Gongzi** of the Wei Family now only has one concubine and often stays in Luoyang. Is that true or not?”

I was taken aback for a moment. 

As it turns out, **Jiumu** had her eyes set on Wei Zhao.

“That's right,” I replied.

**Jiumu** continued, “Ah Jin, for a woman entering a family, the most important thing is the household affairs. The Wei Family is such a prominent household, and as the lady of the house, you will have to take care of everything from top to bottom. People say that killing a formation requires both father and son's soldiers. If you **BiaoZimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Zimei means sisters"></sup> can become sisters-in-law, she can wholeheartedly assist you, isn't that better than having an outsider do it?”

I nodded slightly but showed a hesitant expression. I blushed and spoke softly, “What **Jiumu** said makes sense. However, **Shengnǚ** has only been married for less than a year, and bringing up such a matter hastily might raise suspicions among my in-laws, which wouldn't be ideal. **Jiumu&&...”

“Ah Jin, there's no need to be overly troubled,” **Jiumu** hurriedly said, smiling gently. “**Jiumu** just sharing a thought, but who can guarantee if it will work out or not. As an elder, **Jiumu** has concerns, and **Jiumu**thinks about you **BiaoZimei**, who have had a deep bond since childhood. If both of you could marry into the same family, it would be a wonderful relationship.”

I softly said, “**Jiumu**'s kindness, Ah Jin appreciate and understand your intentions. If the opportunity arises, Ah Jin will certainly help.”

**Jiumu** held my hand, her face beaming with a smile.

<br>

After exchanging more pleasantries, I saw Jiumu off and stood in the corridor, gazing at the sky beyond the walls, taking a deep breath.

When I say about if there's a chance to help and all that, it's just nonsense. **Jiumu** really overestimates me. Even though I am the lady of the house, I still have my parents-in-law above me. Not to mention Wei Jue, Guo Furen is not even Wei Tan's birth mother, but Wei Zhao is her own son. As a stepson's wife, what right do I have to interfere in her son's marriage?

Thinking about Xu **Ji**, who is right here in this household, and **Jiumu** coming to discuss how to snatch her husband away, it just feels awkward and uncomfortable.

I had always thought that Qiao Ti didn't get married due to **Jiufu** or our family's situation. But now, **Jiumu** keeps emphasizing the importance of family status, and it surprised me.

Is the Wei Family really that noble? If there hadn't been any turmoil, and if Wei Jue was still an insignificant cavalry captain in Chang'an, I doubt **Jiumu** would even spare him a glance, even if he personally came to propose marriage.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

I spent some time packing my things and started feeling a bit tired, so I went to rest on the bed. 

When I woke up, the sky was already getting dim. Ah Yuan told me that Wei Tan had come back an hour ago, but seeing me asleep, he went to Wei An's place.

I acknowledged the information, thought for a moment, and got up to go outside.

The household members in the courtyard were busy preparing for our departure tomorrow. I went to Wei An's courtyard, but Wei Tan was not there. Wei An was standing there, struggling to decide what to take among the pile of wooden items he had made over the past few days, looking pained.

“What's so difficult about it,” I smiled and said, “Take the things that are hard to make, and there's also that cart that **Sishu** has been working on for quite some time.”

Wei An nodded and continued squatting in front of the pile of wood, contemplating.

After leaving Wei An's place, I thought of visiting Xu **Ji**. As I approached the entrance of a courtyard, I suddenly heard the sound of a woman crying from inside.

“Furen.” The steward was standing at the gate and came over to greet me.

“What's the reason for the cries?” I asked.

The steward replied, “It's about those girls that Zhou **Taishou** sent. **Da Gongzi** just gave instructions to distribute them among the officers, but those girls are unwilling.”

I was taken aback for a moment. Just yesterday, I was troubled about how to handle these people, but Wei Tan had already taken care of it. Did he notice my dilemma? I felt somewhat touched.

“Furen,” the steward looked at me, “Do you want to go inside and have a look?”

I shook my head and said, “No need.” With that, I turned around and walked away.

　　At this time of the day, Xu **Ji** would usually be tending to the flowers and plants in the backyard. I went directly to the back garden and, as I reached the corner of the corridor, I suddenly heard sobbing again, not from several people but just one.

Xu **Ji**? I was puzzled, stopped in my tracks, and peeked ahead from behind the wall. In front of a peony flower bed, there were two people: one standing, and one kneeling. Xu **Ji** was the one kneeling, while the one standing was Wei Tan.

“...Begging **Da Gongzi** for your compassion,” Xu **Ji**'s voice trembled as she spoke, “...I have served with all my heart, but Guo Furen does not favor me, and Fujun has abandoned me. Now, the only one who can help me in this world is **Da Gongzi**…”
