---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 43: Visiting the Sage (Part 1)"
order: 43
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /DILOANH/c43/
---

<div class="author-note">
'Sage' is not the direct translation for "贤"(xián). The character represents the concept of "virtuous" or "wise". It embodies qualities of moral excellence, wisdom, and goodness. In traditional Chinese society, individuals who were considered "贤" were highly respected and admired for their exemplary conduct and contributions to their families, communities, and the broader society.
</div>

I was hiding by the wall, only hearing the faint voice of Wei Tan comforting Xu **Ji** with consoling words. She was still crying, and before long, I saw Wei Tan's figure heading outside the garden while Xu **Ji** remained kneeling on the ground, wiping her tears incessantly.

I stood there for a while, feeling that it was inconvenient to stay any longer, and slowly walked away.

My heart couldn't help but feel a sense of sorrow. I once asked the steward about the old residence in Luoyang, and he told me that Wei Jue never returned after leaving for Yongdu. The family members here would also go to Yongdu before winter, leaving only a few guards behind. Among those who went to Yongdu, Xu **Ji** was not among them. I could roughly understand her despair. Wei Tan would leave tomorrow, and it was uncertain when this mansion would welcome its master again. If I were her, I might also beg desperately, even if the hope seemed faint.

“Men are just like that...” I suddenly recalled the words Ruochan said. At that time, she helplessly said to me, “...When they want to find you, they are *in a flurry*. But when you want to keep them by your side, they don’t know what they want to do…”

With all these random thoughts swirling in my mind, I returned to the courtyard, and as soon as I stepped inside, I ran into Wei Tan coming out.

“Where did you go?” he asked, frowning. “I couldn't find you anywhere.”

“**Qie** was just wandering around the mansion, checking if all the necessary things for the journey have been prepared,” I replied.

“Oh?” He looked at me, his gaze flickering. “Where did Furen go? Did you go to the western side?”

I hesitated for a moment, realizing that he was referring to the residences of those beauties.

“Been there,” I followed his lead, furrowing my brows. “Is Fujun planning to distribute those beautiful women among the generals?”

“Exactly,” Wei Tan smiled. “I have several commanders, all of them with excellent character, but unfortunately, due to our constant battles and campaigns, they haven't had the opportunity to marry. These women come from respectable families, and they happen to be suitable matches.” After he finished speaking, he glanced at me, raising an eyebrow slightly. “Furen, do you object?”

I am very willing, but I had to put on an appearance of virtuousness and regret on my face. “How could **Qie** dares to object?” I replied. “It's just that Fujun initially intended to keep them here. **Qie** thought they could serve as maidservants by my side, and in the future, they would be able to attend to Fujun as well.”

“Is that so?” Wei Tan stroked his chin, looking thoughtful. “Furen make a valid point. I'll take back the idea. Those five beautiful women indeed look quite charming. During leisure time, one can make tea, another can read, one can attend to the body, another can do the hairdressing, and there's also one to extinguish the light...”

Me: “...”

<br>

I thought that since we would be setting off tomorrow, and in order to conserve energy, Wei Tan wouldn't mess around tonight.

But I was wrong. Wei Tan was like an insatiable glutton, constantly urging me for more, saying "once again". When I woke up at dawn, my legs were sore and achy, and I had no desire to move from the bed. However, Wei Tan seemed to have exerted much more effort than me, yet he appeared completely at ease, putting on his clothes and seeing me still lying down. A smirk formed at the corner of his lips as he said, “Let **Weifu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband"></sup> help Furen get dressed.”

I was unwilling to cooperate, so I hid under the blanket, not allowing him to touch me. We struggled for a while, and I ended up with a few more red marks on my neck. After finally putting on my clothes, Wei Tan insisted on carrying me to the carriage. I became furious and grabbed a pillow to throw at him. Only then did he walk away, looking satisfied.

After breakfast, the carriages and horses formed a long queue, leaving the old residence and heading towards the city gate.

The cushion on my carriage was thicker than usual, especially under my injured foot. It was evident that someone was feeling guilty and took special care to arrange it that way.

“Furen, the weather isn't that cold yet. Why is Furen's collar wrapped so tightly?” Ah Yuan looked at me with a blush on her face, wearing a mischievous smile.

Wei Tan is so unscrupulous, that he allows my maidservant to joke around with the master. I pretended to be annoyed and reached out to tickle her. Ah Yuan has always been afraid of being tickled, so she begged for mercy repeatedly, giggling and laughing. It took quite a while before I finally stopped.

After the playfulness, I talked to her about serious matters.

The other day, Li Shang's letter arrived. He said he and Gongyang Gui, along with Li Huan, had all returned to Yongdu safely. They traveled without major incidents. In the southern region, he managed to find the medicine merchant they used to deal with. Fortunately, that area was not severely affected by the war, and everything seemed to be in order.

The letter was brief, but knowing that they are safe brought contentment to my heart. Li Shang is determined to rebuild his old business, and his enthusiasm is admirable, which I naturally support. However, from Li Shang's intentions, he wants to open a medicine shop in Yongdu, and that raises some concerns for me.

My relationship with Li Shang is not a secret, at least within the Wei household; anyone with an intention to inquire can easily find out. Li Shang's plan to open a medicine shop targets the high-ranking officials and wealthy individuals in Yongdu, which will inevitably lead to various interactions. It's not about me being concerned about my reputation or not wanting people to know that the Steward  of the Fu Family is now running a business. It's more about if Li Shang opens the medicine shop in Yongdu, it could potentially lead to the exposure of our business relationship. If he is the one visibly running the shop, people may become aware of the connection between us, and this could have negative consequences for both of us.

“Ah Yuan, can you find someone else to open the shop, while Li **Guanshi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="steward"></sup> can act as its secret owner?” I pondered aloud.

Ah Yuan understood my thoughts and replied, “I've also considered that. I'll discuss it with Father when we return to Yongdu.”

I nodded in agreement.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After leaving Luoyang, I was unfamiliar with the roads. To me, whether Wei Tan was heading east, west, north, or south, it all looked the same. However, five days later, when I saw the vast expanse of mountains, forests, and rural scenery before me, I couldn't help but be stunned.

“Tonight, we will stay in Shangzhou, and tomorrow we'll prepare lightly and head to Shangnan (The southern Shang),” Wei Tan instructed the attendants.

The attendants acknowledged his instructions.

“Shangnan?” I asked Wei Tan with confusion, “Why are we going to Shangnan?”

Wei Tan chuckled, “WeiFu plans to follow in Emperor Hui's footsteps and seek *xianren*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="贤人(xianren) -person of virtue (or merit); person of outstanding integrity; upright man; sage"></sup> in the deep mountains, would Furen like to accompany?”　

I was unsure about the Sage he mentioned, but since it was a rare opportunity to be out and about, exploring various places seemed better than staying in an inn. Therefore, after resting for a night, I got into the carriage and followed Wei Tan's party towards Shangnan.

<br>

The roads in the mountains and wilderness were not easy to traverse. Although we could manage to move forward with the carriage, the terrain was rough and uneven, making our progress slow.

We set out early in the morning, and by noon, the guide announced, “**Da Gongzi**, we have arrived!” I looked outside and saw a scene of lush green mountains, surrounded by meandering streams. A small bridge, just enough for pedestrians and plow oxen to pass, stretched over the stream. Beyond the bridge lay a verdant bamboo forest.

I looked around, and indeed, it was a perfect place for a peaceful retreat, serene and beautiful.

Since the bridge was too narrow for the carriage to pass through, Wei Tan decided to abandon the carriage and horses altogether. He left the attendants behind to take care of them while we proceeded on foot.

Wei An was very curious about the bridge and looked at it before asking Wei Tan, “**Xiongzhang**, didn't you say that the reason *hermits* hide themselves in the world is to wait for others to seek them out?”

<div class="author-note">
隐士(yinshi) - a person who chooses to live a solitary and secluded life, often away from society, in order to pursue spiritual, philosophical, or intellectual goals.
</div>

Upon hearing Wei An's question, I was in the middle of sipping water from a water pouch and couldn't help but cough in surprise.

Wei Tan, being a warrior, was rough in both his behavior and speech. Seeking seclusion in the mountains and renouncing worldly desires is the dream of many scholars. Such an elegant and refined lifestyle, when in Wei Tan's hands, would lose its charm and grace.

“En?” Wei Tan glanced at me with a seemingly amused expression and asked Wei An, “Did I say that?”

“You said that,” Wei An replied confidently, then continued, But since they are always waiting for others to visit them, why not widen the bridge so that carriages and horses can pass? That way, more people would come.”

Wei Tan smiled but remained silent. He patted Wei An's shoulder and then turned to me, asking, “Is there something troubling Furen?”

I shook my head and said, “**Qie** is fine.”

Wei Tan gave some instructions to the people left behind and then led us towards the bamboo forest.

<br>

Wei An's words were not unfounded. If this hermit indeed wanted visitors, he seemed to lack sincerity in his approach. The wooden bridge had been in use for a long time and felt a bit shaky. Through the gaps in the bridge, one could see the rushing stream below.

As I walked on an unstable part of the bridge, I stumbled a little. Wei Tan noticed and turned back, quickly grabbing my hand to steady me before we continued forward.

His hand felt warm and strong. Even after crossing the bridge, he didn't let go. With only a few attendants by our side, I allowed him to hold my hand without resisting.

“Who is this *Xianren* Fujun wants to visit?" I looked at the dense bamboo forest ahead, feeling the gentle breeze on my face, and couldn't help but ask.

<div class="author-note">
Xian used in here is 闲 which could be translate to idle/unoccupied person
</div>

Wei Tan looked at me and said, “Have Furen ever heard of Yunshi **Xiansheng**?”

<div class="author-note">
云石(yúnshí) - marble
先生(xiānsheng)- master/teacher/gentleman  
</div>

I was taken aback for a moment. “Gongsun Ren?”

Wei Tan nodded, “Exactly.”

I was somewhat surprised. Of course, I knew Gongsun Ren. He hailed from Shanyang and gained literary fame from a young age. Through his travels and apprenticeships, he acquired extensive knowledge and wisdom. He served as a doctor in the court for over twenty years before leaving Chang'an after reaching the age of sixty. He adopted the title "Yunshi **XianSheng**" and traveled all over the country. His reputation was widely acclaimed, and he was considered one of the preeminent scholars of his time. Father held him in high regard, and our household possessed many books annotated by Gongsun Ren himself.

“I heard that Yunshi **Xiansheng**'s whereabouts are unpredictable, and didn't want anyone to intrude on his seclusion,” I said.

Wei Tan smiled faintly and said, “In the present world, everyone's whereabouts are uncertain. To find a stable place to be a hermit is already rare and difficult.”

What a rough man, I thought to myself, but then I asked, “Is it that Fujun intends to invite Yunshi **Xiansheng** out of seclusion?”

Wei Tan replied, “Yunshi **Xiansheng** is already seventy years old, and even if he were to leave seclusion, he might not be able to travel comfortably. **Weifu**'s purpose for coming here is to seek his wisdom and knowledge.”

“So be it,” I chuckled, feeling as if I were hearing a joke.

<br>

After walking for over a hundred steps into the bamboo forest, a courtyard came into view. It had mud walls and thatched roofs, surrounded by bamboo fences.

I heard someone playing the qin (a traditional Chinese musical instrument), with a calm and smooth melody that perfectly matched the serene atmosphere of this place.

The attendants knocked on the wooden gate a few times, and the qin music ceased. Shortly after, a young boy came out.

“Who are you, and what brings you here?” He scrutinized us through the wooden gate and asked.

Wei Tan motioned for the attendants to step back and then approached the young boy, bowing respectfully. “Wei Tan from Hexi, has come to pay respects to Yunshi **Xiansheng**,” he said.

The young boy looked at Wei Tan and then glanced at the rest of us behind him, asking, “And who are these people with you?”

“They are my wife, younger brother, and attendants,” Wei Tan replied.

The young boy furrowed his brow and said, “There are so many people, **Xiansheng**'s tea bowls are not many, wait a sec...” He seemed concerned about the number of visitors.

“Qingming, who is visiting?” A deep and leisurely voice came from the grass cottage nearby.

The young boy turned around and said, “It's Wei Tan from Hexi, along with his wife, younger brother, and…”

“So it is distinguished guests,” the voice replied with a smile. “Qingming, quickly open the door.”

The young boy, Qingming, nodded and opened the wooden gate, bowing to us. “Please come in,” he said.

Wei Tan smiled and asked the attendants to wait outside, then he led me and Wei An inside.

Inside the courtyard, the grass was lush and green, and various flowers and plants adorned the surroundings. A clean white sand pathway meandered through the garden. Near the grass cottage, gentle tea smoke rose, and two people were engaged in a game of Chinese chess.

The person with snow-white hair and a slender figure was undoubtedly Baishi **Xiansheng**. Sitting across from him was a young man with fair complexion, focused expression, and a hint of composure evident from his side profile.

<div class="author-note">
I am not sure whether the author decided to change the Master name or just typo, as from now onward, the author uses Baishi instead of Yunshi
</div>

The young boy led us to the front of the cottage without announcing our arrival or saying a word. He quietly took off his shoes and entered the cottage. He placed a qin next to the two men and resumed playing it.

As the qin music played softly, the two men engaged in their game of chess with utmost concentration. The three of us silently waited for them.

Father had once mentioned that renowned hermits tended to be aloof, and no matter who the visitors were, they would likely experience some sense of intimidation. Now, I was witnessing it firsthand. Looking at Wei Tan, his expression remained calm as he gazed at the grass cottage, as if appreciating the music and also observing the chess game.

After half an hour had passed, Baishi **Xiansheng** let out a long sigh and clapped his hands, saying with a smile, “**Sou**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="叟(sou) - Old Man"></sup> lost again. After all, One is no match for young people.”

The man across from him bowed respectfully and spoke with a clear voice, “**Xiansheng**'s chess skills are profound, and Ting deeply admires them.”

Baishi **Xiansheng** stroked his beard and shook his head. Then, as if he had just noticed our presence, he smiled and stood up.

“Oh, **Laosou**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="This old man"></sup> was so engrossed in the game, and forgot about the guests. Please excuse the lack of manner.” He stepped out to the front of the cottage and bowed to Wei Tan.
