---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 49: Xu Ji"
order: 49
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /DILOANH/c49/
---

In this matter, I truly kept my lips sealed, and Ah Yuan did not tell either.

I am unaware of the grievances between the Wei and Xu families or what happened during their marriage arrangement back then. Perhaps, I would have to ask the elders in the mansion or Wei Tan to fully understand. However, I have no intention of doing so.

I increasingly feel that it's all a tragicomedy. Is it heaven's deliberate plan? Breaking apart two pairs of lovers and forcibly creating another, pushing the rest away? I don't know what Wei Tan truly thinks of Empress Xu, but I understand how hard it is to forget old love; I deeply empathise with this. He treats me well now, but who knows, after the novelty wears off, when will he suddenly find his heart longing for Empress Xu again?

The Wei Family is growing stronger day by day, as evident from last night's feast. Wei Jue no longer regards the Emperor with respect. Someday in the future, I will be of no use anymore, and with age and fading beauty, I won't be able to compare to younger women. At that time, Wei Tan might readily replace me without any hesitation.

I think of the red flower on the silk handkerchief. In Wei Tan's heart, is Empress Xu also like that Yumeiren, although it's old, its colour is new?

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Snow had fallen two or three times in a row.

During the winter, the consumption of food and alcohol was substantial. However, due to the ongoing military campaigns, most of the goods in the market were under the control of the government. As a result, it became challenging for people who wanted to sell alcohol, food, and cloth to find a stable source of goods.

Fortunately, business at Yannian Hall is flourishing. With the winter snowfall, most of the herbs and plants in the mountains and fields are buried under the snow, making it difficult to find medicinal ingredients. In the city, even ordinary herbs have seen a sharp rise in prices. Li Shang was well-prepared, and when Gongyang Gui returned from Yu Zhang for the second time, he brought back a whole ship full of medicinal materials.

As the business grew, various minor issues started to arise. Li Shang told me that the staff in the shop were overwhelmed with work, and he suggested hiring more people. I agreed and told him to go ahead and find suitable candidates.

Indeed, Li Shang does possess a unique talent for business. He said that to expand a business, one must stand out from the crowd, see what others cannot see, and accomplish what others cannot achieve.

Of course, I was not idle either. On that day at the banquet, when Yuying mentioned her plan to visit Yannian Hall, I took the opportunity to express my interest in joining as well. I noticed that many people around us exchanged glances. With a smile, I spoke some words of concern for our relatives and husbands' health, and they followed suit, nodding and laughing. Before long, the group intending to visit Yannian Hall grew from just Yuying and me to more than a dozen people.

On the day we went to Yannian Hall, it had just snowed, and the buildings and streets of Yongdu were covered in a vast expanse of white.

Among those who followed, not many of the noble ladies were willing participants. When Cai Rang greeted the guests with a smile at the entrance, they displayed a haughty demeanor and refused to meet his gaze.

However, once we entered inside, everything changed.

Thick curtains blocked the cold wind, and the charcoal stove warmed the shop, creating a cozy atmosphere. The scent of tea wafted from a corner with a teapot. However, what truly caught the eyes was the sight of several young apprentices meticulously preparing and dispensing medicines in front of the medicine cabinet.

Unlike the typical ordinary-looking servants often seen in other shops, the young apprentices at Yannian Hall were different. They had fair and handsome faces, with well-proportioned figures. Their attire was neat and tidy, and when they saw customers approaching, they greeted them with warm smiles and courteous gestures.

The noble ladies all showed surprise and exchanged glances with each other.

"Why is it so lively today?" Yuying's eyes kept glancing at the medicine cabinet as she asked Cai Rang.

Cai Rang smiled and said, "We just received some new goods today, and the shop is busy, so we hired extra help." He then turned to the ladies with a beaming smile and said, "Our humble shop is simple, but with the presence of esteemed guests, it becomes more radiant. Furens, feel free to browse around. We have a wide selection of goods, and if anything catches the eye, we offer favorable prices." 

With his words, the women had already lost their previous indifference and began looking around with curious eyes.

Yuying spoke earnestly, "Price doesn't matter to us. We, as thoughtful wives, prioritize the quality of the goods."

Cai Rang nodded in agreement and invited the ladies to take a seat at the table to rest and enjoy some tea. The young apprentices orderly presented various medicines, carefully serving the wealthy ladies as they made their selections, speaking in harmonious and gentle tones.

"Yuying, I never imagined... there could be such a pharmacy in Yongdu," I overheard a young married woman, who was on good terms with Yuying, whispering to her.

Yuying glanced at her with a proud smile on her face.

Cai Rang was unaware of my connection with Yannian Hall. Seeing the varying attitudes of the others towards me, he came over to serve me attentively.

This was a plan that Li Shang and I had discussed. This was also my first time visiting the shop, and even though I was well aware of its setup, being here in person gave me a different feeling.

Those young apprentices were handpicked by Li Shang from the labor market, and they had excellent appearances, but their cost was not cheap. I used to be concerned about the expenses, but now seeing these wealthy ladies completely engrossed, I couldn't help but admire Li Shang's shrewdness in handling matters.

The charming and eloquent young men serving on this side were excellent at speaking about various medicinal materials, and they could talk endlessly about them. When I heard the sound of Yuying and the other women taking out their gold and silver, I felt elated. Of course, I wouldn't hold back either; after all, I was spending Wei Residence's money, and in the end, it would find its way into my own purse.

"Ah Jin, this is a fantastic item," Yuying whispered to me as the young apprentice presented a box of roucongrong<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="肉苁蓉(ròucōngróng)-saline cistanche (Cistanche salsa)"></sup>, "Cook it together with sweet potato and mutton, and it will have such good benefits."

"What are its benefits?" I asked in surprise as I saw her acting all mysterious.

"It nourishes Yin and enhances essence," Yuying said with a smile, glancing at me playfully and adding, "You've been married for over half a year now, and good news should be coming soon, right?"

<div class="author-note">
In traditional Chinese medicine, Yin (from Yin and Yang)  is associated with nourishment, reproduction, and the preservation of life. The female reproductive system, including the ovaries, uterus, and breasts, is considered to be governed by Yin energy. It is believed that a strong and balanced Yin energy in a woman's body is essential for her overall health, fertility, and well-being.
</div>

I understood her implication and blushed slightly.

"My father understands medicine too. He has visited this place before and said the quality is better than other shops," Yuying continued, whispering to me, "My family has a prescription, shall I give you a copy?"

I concealed my embarrassment and smiled, replying, "No need, my family also has one."

On the way back to the mansion, I listened to the sound of the carriage wheels crushing the ice and snow, and my hand unconsciously rested on my belly.

At that moment, although I didn't pay much attention, Yuying's words stirred up a concern in my heart. While Wei Tan treats me well now, if I want to continue living peacefully in the family, I still need to bear a child. This matter was subtly hinted at by Ruochan, and having experienced the suspicious glances from my parents-in-law in Laiyang in the past, I deeply understood the importance of this issue.

Wei Tan has never mentioned this matter in front of me, but I am well aware that he puts in efforts on those nights that leave me sore and my back ached. While Guo Furen seems indifferent to this issue, I am also well aware that every time I have my menstruation, the maidservants inform her of the news…

If it happens, it will happen in its own time; I can't rush it. I quietly reassured myself.

As the carriage stopped in front of the mansion, I could hear some chatter. When I got out of the carriage, I saw the servants unloading several carriages.

"**Tangsao**," Zhou **Shi** came out from inside the gate and walked towards me, "Does **Tangsao** know who has returned?"

I saw several generals outside the gate talking, and they seemed to have just arrived from a long journey, all wrapped up tightly. I exclaimed in surprise, "Could it be that **Ershu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Second (younger) brother-in-law"></sup> has returned?"
  
"It is indeed him. But there is another person," Zhou **Shi** smiled and lowered her voice, "**Ershu** has brought back Xu **Ji**, the one from Luoyang. **Tangsao**, Xu **Ji** is pregnant."

As I walked with Zhou **Shi** into the hall, indeed, at first glance, I saw Wei Zhao. A woman was kneeling in front of him, bowing to Wei Jue and Guo Furen. Her figure and back view were familiar – it was indeed Xu **Ji**.

"**Zhangsao**," Wei Zhao was the first to notice me and bowed in my direction.

"**Ershu**," I returned the gesture.

"Ah Jin has returned," Wei Jue glanced at me and set down the tea cup in his hand.

"Greetings **Jiushi**, greeting **Gushi**" I stepped forward and bowed to him and Guo Furen.

Guo Furen asked, "**Shao Furen** has been in Luoyang once, have you met Xu **Ji**?"

With that, Xu **Ji** looked at me and quickly bowed, saying, "**Qie** pays respects to **Shao Furen**."

I returned the gesture and smiled, saying, "Since we parted in Luoyang, it has been over two months. Has Xu **Ji** been well during our separation?"

Xu **Ji** lowered her gaze and softly replied, "Thanking **Shao Furen** for the concern. While **Qie** was in Luoyang, One often thought of Furen as well."

I smiled warmly and slightly lowered my gaze. Xu **Ji** was dressed in thick winter clothing, and her abdomen appeared flat; there were no noticeable changes or contours.

Wei Jue was in good spirits. After taking his seat, he asked Wei Zhao about some matters in Jizhou, and Wei Zhao promptly reported everything. Guo Furen sat beside him, saying very little, but her smile never faded from her face.

After a while, Xu **Ji** presented a lacquered box and opened it. Inside, it was filled with dried peony flowers.

She said, "This spring, the rain and dew were abundant in Luoyang, and the peony flowers in the residence bloomed profusely. When the flowers fell, **Qie** remembered how **Zhugong** used to brew tea with peony flowers, so One sun-dried and preserved the flowers as a keepsake."

"Oh?" Wei Jie looked at the dried flowers and smiled, "It's been many years since One last returned to Luoyang. Are those peonies still there?"

"**Fuqin**," Wei An, who was seated below, replied in harmony, "Xu **Ji** personally takes care of the peonies in Luoyang. When One went to the residence to take a look, the stems were as thick as a child's arm."

Wei Jue nodded and instructed a servant to put away the dried flowers.

Guo Furen then instructed the housekeeper to prepare one of the side rooms in Wei Zhao's courtyard, ensuring that there were enough bedding and other necessities. She also asked Zhang **Shi** to arrange for experienced maid servants who were knowledgeable about childbirth to take care of Xu **Ji**'s daily needs.

"Now it's already the Eleventh Month, the weather is cold, and the water is chilly. You must be careful," Guo Furen admonished Xu **Ji** with a kind and caring gaze.

"One will do so," Xu **Ji** bowed, displaying a gentle and respectful demeanor.

<br>

As I finally put away the facade of friendliness, I found myself back in the courtyard. I looked up at the sky; heavy clouds loomed overhead, and it seemed that it was going to snow again.

"Furen," Ah Yuan's face was full of doubt, and she whispered, "How could Xu **Ji** be pregnant? When we were in Luoyang, it was obvious that…"

"Shh," I scolded her with a stern look.

Ah Yuan glanced around and immediately fell silent.

I walked into the room and asked Ah Yuan to call the servants to light a charcoal fire. Then I closed the door. As I sat on the couch, holding a cup of hot tea, my mind was a bit unsettled.

Guo Furen dislikes Xu **Ji**, and now that she can openly come to Yongdu, it is undoubtedly because of her pregnancy.

But when did Xu **Ji** get pregnant? Wei Zhao... My face flushed slightly; prying into someone's private matters was something I still found embarrassing. However, my knowledge about conceiving and related matters was quite limited, and trying to calculate dates felt like being lost in a cloud of uncertainty. While I frequently saw Xu **Ji** during our time in Luoyang, she never mentioned anything about it. She even complained to Wei Tan, but in the blink of an eye, she returned to Yongdu with Wei Zhao, pregnant.

I thought about Xu **Ji**'s modest and gentle face, so calm and composed. I couldn't help but wonder what thoughts and intentions were hidden behind that facade?

<br>

When it was time for the evening meal, Wei Tan returned home.

Upon seeing Wei Zhao and Xu **Ji**, he showed no unusual expression. After exchanging greetings, they talked briefly about whether the journey was smooth, and then each had their meal.

The atmosphere in the hall felt somewhat delicate. When Xu **Ji**'s meal was served, Guo Furen inquired the elderly woman serving her whether it was suitable to eat, and also asked about the arrangements in Wei Zhao's courtyard. Her excessive concern made me inexplicably feel that my conversation with Wei Tan was lacking warmth.

Back in the courtyard, I remained silent the whole time.

After helping Wei Tan change out of his outer coat, Ah Yuan came in and said the water was ready, asking if I wanted to go to the bathhouse.

I enjoyed bathing, and even on cold days when I could only wash my feet, I still loved spending time in the bathhouse. Being alone there allowed me to ponder over things, which I found quite enjoyable.

"No," I hadn't even spoken, but Wei Tan answered for me, "Bring the water here. Furen and I will wash our feet together."

Ah Yuan responded with a muffled acknowledgment and closed the door with a hint of ambiguity in her expression.

I looked at Wei Tan in surprise, and he looked back at me.

"Does Furen have something on the mind?" he asked.

"**Qie** has nothing on the mind," I replied, smiling softly.

"Oh? Why doesn't Furen talk then?"

"**Qie** is not someone who speaks much."

Wei Tan looked at me thoughtfully, as if pondering something.

I turned around and hung his coat on the armrest, but I heard him say faintly from behind, "I'll count from three. If you have something to say, ask it before the count is over."

I was taken aback, and just as I turned to respond, he had already said, "Three."

Feeling a slight tremor in my heart, I looked into those inscrutable eyes and still tried to act nonchalant. "What does Fujun mean? **Qie**..." I began.

"Two," he interrupted.

My heart pounded, and I bit my lip nervously.

He was about to speak again, but I quickly interjected, "How could Xu **Ji** be pregnant?"

Wei Tan's smile seemed somewhat ambiguous, and after a moment, he spoke in a low voice, "Furen seems to enjoy guessing riddles, right?"
