---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 5: Labour Market"
order: 5
---
# Chapter 5: Labour Market

Wei Tan did not have many servants, and all of them were brought along to the expedition. After the audience with the Emperor, Guo Furen instructed the steward to assign servants in my courtyard. 

Even though there was an abundance of servants in the Wei Family, there were not enough maids. The steward embarrasedly came to ask me for my opinio, and I replied kindly that since it was the case, it was better to buy some from the labour market since I had not bought any maids with me either. 

The steward complied and went over to report to Guo Furen. As there were no objections, the matter was quickly settled. 

After receiving the reply, I felt that this Guo Furen was a thoughtful person. Mother had once told me that when a bride enters the family, there would be a distribution of belongings and one had to accept the flow of it. However, personal maids could not be decided upon casually. Back then. I didn't quite not understand those words. However, after experiencing many things, one gradually understands it. 

 As a human being, who would not have secrets? Especially among the nobles, there were many private transactions and those affairs that were exposed, most of them started from their servants. Of course, I didn’t mean to do any bad deeds, but in a totally unfamiliar household, of course I did not wish for my every action to spread to my Mother-in-law or to others. 

 ***

 Surrounded by chaos and wars, there were many refugees around. It was not difficult at all to buy people and the prices were even affordable. 

Yongdu now was the house of the Emperor and hundreds of officials, thus, many wealthy households from Luoyang and Chang'an ended up moving over, following the Emperor, resulting in a bustling labour market. The city was dirty, crowded and chaotic. All the males and females who were waiting for someone to purchase them were occupying the various corners. Some were neat and tidy, some were unkempt. And some were even led by brokers like animals. 

There were also a number of buyers. Most of the wealthier masters would ride in a horse carriage or oxcart and through the thin bamboo curtain, if they took a fancy to any, they would send their servants to inquire. 

The steward led a few obedient family servants along and protected my carriage as it rode through the market. As soon as one appeared, one was quickly surrounded with a number of brokers. 

“Furen! Buying servants? I have servants that are attractive and also good at doing their work!”

“Furen, Furen! Come and take a look at my side! These are all young servants from Yangzhou. All are charming and obedient!”

“It’s better to look at my side, Furen! These servants of mine are from Luoyang and used to work in large families! Furen, there are also some from Chang'an!”

“Oh, oh! Is Furen looking for the older ones? We have all sorts! Those that have given birth before, raised masters before and can even help deliver babies!”

“Furen, there are also male servants! Strong and full of energy. They can be put on trial for half a month and one guarantee Furen will be satisfied…”

It was so crowded that the carriage could not go forward and the steward had to shout to get the crowd to make way. 

“Furen, are there any that you fancy?” the steward asked from outside the carriage. 

“Let’s take a look in front.” I said.

The carriage continued to move forward, and along the way, there were many brokers approaching. The steward had to look at them and also blocked them, making him very busy. 

Suddenly, there was a loud noise from the side of the road in front, which was accompanied by a crying sound. As the carriage passed by, through the bamboo curtain, I saw an angry male shouting. The person who was arguing with him seemed to be a broker and both of them were pulling  a crying woman, seemingly fighting over her. 

My eyes were fixed on them, and I hurriedly said, “**Guanshi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="steward"></sup>, stop the carriage.”

The steward told the servant driving the carriage to stop. 

“Furen, is there someone you like?” the steward asked. 

“The woman that those two people are fighting over, go and ask.” I said.

The steward was surprised, but acceded and went over to inquire. 

Not long after, he came back and said, “Furen, this one has asked. The woman and the man are siblings, and their father is seriously ill. The woman voluntarily sold herself to the broker to get money for their father’s treatment. Now the older brother came, saying that he was unaware about this, and insisted on taking the woman back.” 

So it was like that. I said, “You go and tell the broker, I will buy this woman.”

The steward was taken aback and hesitated, he said, “ Furen, there are still many people available in the market. Why don’t Furen take another look? There is still some entanglement in this woman’s family, thus one fears that there would be future implications.”

“It is of no issue.” I said. “You go and ask the broker for the price.”

The steward complied and turned around to leave. 

The quarrelling noises then stopped. I saw the joy on the broker’s face as he bowed to the steward. However, the facial expression of the woman’s older brother changed greatly as he looked over here, swung his arm, and rushed towards the carriage. 

Seeing the situation was not good, the family servants by the carriage rushed forward to stop him.

The man was full of anger and the family servants. Just as he was about to speak, I pulled up the bamboo curtain.

When the two pairs of eyes met, the man saw me, and his face changed from anger to shock, and his mouth was half-opened. 

“Ah Huan,” I said to him.

***

To the south of Yongdu were narrow alleys. It was here that the poor and homeless gathered. Beggars were found everywhere, wailing rang through the air. This place was far more dirty and dilapidated than the market area. Straws were scattered everywhere, sewage water flowed freely through the streets. Flies accompanied the stench, several people, wan and frail, lay on the straw mats.

“Furen, one cannot stay in this dirty and chaotic place for a long time. It is better for Furen to return.” The steward frowned and looked at the miserable surroundings as he persuaded me.

Ah Huan, who was leading the way, turned around and looked at me with a hesitant expression, as if he was a little embarrassed. 

“**NǚJun**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(pronounced as Niu) Young lady; a term servants uses to address the young lady of the house they serve"></sup>...” He hesitantly said, “This place… um… is not the place for **NǚJun** to come.”

“There is no harm. Let’s go.” I said.

Ah Huan’s house was located in a *Zhang*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="1 Zhang = 10 feet or 3.33 metre"></sup>. It was better to call it a nest instead of a house. The small courtyard was covered with an awning, squeezing over nearly ten families together. 

“We don’t have any place to settle down in Yongdu and could only afford the rental here.” Ah Huan said softly. His younger sister, Ah Yuan, lowered her head and there were traces of tears in the corner of her eyes.

My gaze swept past the messy grass and faces and not long after, landed onto a grass mat not far away. Li Shang, the former steward of my family, was laying there with his hair unkempt and half of his face exposed under the dirty black quilt. 

“**FuQin**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Father"></sup>,” Ah Huan squatted down beside him, and said with a choke voice, “**FuQin**, **NǚJun** has come to see you… **FuQin** wake up, it’s **NǚJun**…” 

The side of his face seemed to move a bit. I walked over and saw Li Shang’s sallow face as his eyelids opened slowly. His eyes had sunken in deeply, making those previously hale and hearty eyes seemed like two dry wells. However upon seeing me, there was a sudden burst of light in his eyes, as if he had seen the most incredible thing.

“**Nǚ**….” Li Shang opened his dry lips, his voice was hoarse, but he could not complete his sentence. 

I leaned over and looked at him, pulling the corners of my lips and said, “**GuanShi**, it’s me.” 

Tears welled up in those haggard eyes, as Li Shang opened his mouth and suddenly cried out, “**NǚJun**… **Nǚ**….” He struggled to get up from the mat and seemed to want to bow. 

Tears began to fill my eyes and I quickly stopped him, “**GuanShi** does not need to be so polite. Don’t get up.”

“**NǚJun**…” Li Shang looked at me with tears as he gasped and there was also a smile, and both his hands clasped my sleeve tightly.

I nodded my head vigorously as I wiped the tears on my face, and looked at the siblings, Ah Huan and Ah Yuan, who were standing beside me. 

They had already cried so much that their faces wrinkled. After all, this was a reunion after being *separated in life and death*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="idioms; to part forever/a separation that everyone thought wouldn’t have any reunion."></sup>

***

Ah Huan had told me that before the Fu Family’s mishap, it was a coincidence that Li Shang brought the siblings back to their hometown in the countryside. When the grievous news reached them, a month had passed. Li Shang hid the siblings deep in the mountains and risked his life to return to Chang'an to find out more. However, he had not thought that the Fu Family’s residence would be completely destroyed; that my Father, Brothers or clan members had not survived. Even though Li Shang found out that I was by the Empress Dowager’s side, he was unable to meet me and could only cry bitterly and returned to the countryside. 

Later, as time went by, Chang'an had fallen into complete chaos and war broke out everywhere. Last year, their hometown was looted by rebels, the houses completely destroyed. All they could do was follow the fellow villagers to take refuge elsewhere. Unexpectedly, there were bandits everywhere. Thus, the family of three lost all their money and had to beg their money to Yongdu.

I did not need to wait for him to tell me to know what happened afterwards. The three of them had no one to rely on after coming to Yongdu and Li Shang fell seriously ill. Ah Yuan hid from them and sold herself and hence the incident at the labour market today. 

I looked at Li Shang as he calmed down with Ah Huan’s care. After the great joy and sorrow just now, his energy seemed to have depleted. He was currently in deep sleep. 

One could not help but sighed in the heart. 

Li Shang was loyal and had talent to manage a household. This was why Father had always respected him and did not allow the family to order him around like a servant. Even though he was already sold to the residence, Father permitted him to return to his hometown in the countryside yearly, to pray for his ancestors. Because of the friendship in Father’s generation, the siblings, Li Huan and Li Yuan, were naturally on very good terms with me. We had played together as children. 

Li Shang always had an all smiling appearance, and everyone in the residence said that Li Guanshi had a facial expression of good fortune. But now, this middle-aged person who now was in his early forties, had been tortured by hardship and illness that he did not look human. 

“Furen……” The steward came over with a difficult look on his face, “Furen, it’s getting late, it’s time to return.”

I nodded, turned to Li Huan and took out a small piece of gold from my sleeve and stuffed it into him. 

Li Huan’s expression changed as he hurriedly said, “**NǚJun**, this can’t be…”

“Take it.” I put it into his hands decisively and said, “Your father’s illness can no longer be dragged on. I will take Ah Yuan with me, you go to the city and find the best doctor to treat your father’s illness. Besides, no one can live here. Look for another place.”

Li Huan looked at me with reddened eyes. 

I saw that he was about to cry again and sighed, “Don’t be sad anymore, take care of your father.”

Li Huan nodded, wiped his eyes and gave me a long bow, “Thanking **NǚJun**.”

I looked at him, and then at Li Shang, who was lying quietly on the straw mat, and without talking anymore, turned around to leave. 
