---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 65: Dark Night"
order: 65
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /c65/
---

In Wei Tan's courtyard, there is a main house with two side rooms on the east and west. He used to have no concubines or maidservants, and the side rooms were filled with miscellaneous items.

My familiarity with the side rooms started when Wei Tan told me about the buried gold, but that was in the east room. Every once in a while, I would sneak a peek with a wicked heart, just to check if the corner where the gold was buried remained undisturbed. Though I couldn't touch it, just the thought of it satisfied my curiosity. Later, I found some of Empress Xu's old belongings in a chest in the east room, but that matter has become a painful memory in my heart, best left unmentioned.

Ren **Ji**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="姬(jī)- concubine "></sup> residence is in the west room, and there are not as many miscellaneous items compared to the east room, making it easier to tidy up.

On that night, when I returned to the courtyard, I saw the servants going in and out, clearing away the miscellaneous items and moving the beds and tables inside. The window frames were newly pasted with silk, allowing the clear light from the room to shine through, making it so bright that it felt dazzling to my eyes.

I went straight back to my room and closed the door, but even through the walls, I could faintly hear the sound of furniture being moved.

This kind of thing is bound to happen. I consoled myself in my heart, then turned around and met Ah Yuan's complex gaze.

I calmly asked her to fetch some water while I said I needed to freshen up and change clothes. Ah Yuan responded and walked out the door.

Tonight is just a temporary arrangement; tomorrow, the newcomer will formally introduce herself tomorrow.

*What the eyes  doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="眼不见为净(yǎn bú jiàn wéi jìng)-what the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over (idiom); similar to 'out of sight, out of mind'."></sup>, I silently recited as I washed my face and changed into my sleeping attire, then sat in front of the mirror. The time on the water clock was already quite late, but Wei Tan hadn't returned yet.

Wei Jue was so elated, and Wei Tan is a filial son; he shouldn't disregard his parents' reputation. Maybe he... won't come back tonight?

What are you complaining about? You shouldn't complain . The person in the mirror was looking at me, seemingly saying, "Wei Tan refused, and then Wei Jue asked you, and you agreed."

The old fox's plan worked out really well. Now I've truly become the virtuous **Shao Furen** with such a tolerant heart. Everyone in the house was watching this matter closely, and I can't even send someone to ask where Wei Tan will spend the night tonight. Otherwise, people would say, "Oh, look, **Shao Furen** is unwilling."

"Furen," Ah Yuan walked over, hesitating a bit, "It's getting late, and **Da Gongzi**  hasn't returned yet. Furen, look…."

"I'll rest," I said as I stood up from in front of the mirror.

The lamp went out, and the room fell into darkness. I lay on the bed with my eyes closed, I tossed and turned but couldn't fall asleep.

For the first time, I felt that the bed was so spacious. Lying there all alone, it feelt so empty.

The feeling in my heart is indescribable. I recalled my mother and other elder women from the past when their husbands took concubines for the first time. Did they, too, lock themselves in their rooms, wanting to go to the doorway to catch a glimpse of their husbands' whereabouts but finding themselves unable to take a step…

I heard a 'click' sound, seemingly the door being pushed open. I was taken aback, and blinked as I opened my eyes.

In the darkness, the footsteps drew closer, softly, as if afraid of disturbing something. Before long, the faint light from the window revealed Wei Tan's silhouette.

I could hardly believe it, I half-sat up with my arm.

"Still not asleep?" Wei Tan seemed surprised, and after a moment, the light in the room lit up.

My eyes felt a bit uncomfortable with the sudden brightness, but I kept staring at him, motionless.

"What's wrong?" Wei Tan noticed me staring at him and asked.

I gazed at his eyebrows and eyes, feeling that each line was so profound. Suddenly, I remembered that night at the Fan Yue Manor, when I thought Wei Tan wouldn't come back, but then he appeared in front of me, just like now.

My nose felt a bit stuffy, as if tiny insects were crawling inside. A strong urge swelled up within me, and without saying a word, I moved forward and tightly wrapped my arms around his waist, burying my head in his chest.

"I thought... you wouldn't come back," my voice choked, sounding as if it was being squeezed.

For a moment, Wei Tan seemed to be at a loss, but in the next instant, he embraced me tightly, his hands gently stroking the back of my head.

He let out a soft sigh and chuckled helplessly, "What are you overthinking for?"

<div class="author-note">
the word he used was 胡思乱想 (húsī-luànxiǎng) that means to go off into flights of fancy; give way to foolish fancies; let one's imagination went wild
</div>

I didn't answer. I held on, unwilling to let go, like grabbing onto the only source of light in the darkness, letting myself be willful and stubborn.

<br>

Wei Tan went to take a bath. When he came back, as we lay down again, he wrapped his arms around me, just like he had always done.

Neither of us spoke, and in the darkness of the night, I still couldn't fall asleep, closing and opening my eyes. It was subtle, but I could sense that both of us had something on our minds, as he wasn't asleep either.

"What is Fujun thinking about?" After hesitating for a moment, I asked.

"En?" Weitan indeed was awake, and after a moment, he responded, "Does Furen want to know?"

"Yes."

Wei Tan's fingers played with my hair as he slowly said, "I'm thinking, now that a concubine has finally moved in, should she turn the light off, or should she hold the yellow silk?"

I was speechless, feeling both angry and embarrassed. He knew I wanted to hear something sincere, yet he kept joking around.

However, Wei Tan continued to laugh, and his low voice gradually grew louder, his shoulders shaking.

In the darkness, I listened to that deep voice resonating in his chest, and inexplicably, I felt as if I was infected by his laughter and couldn't help but laugh along.

After a while, both of us stopped laughing, and silence filled the surroundings once again.

With a brief pause, Wei Tan suddenly hugged me tightly, pressing himself against me.

I didn't back down either, tilting my head to respond to his passionate breath, and my hand slipped under his clothes, lingering on his strong muscles.

I felt the pressure of his firm thigh against mine, and Wei Tan's breath became even heavier. His body arched, and he pulled off my clothes. As his big hand was about to lift my leg, I caught it, and with a swift move, I flipped over, pressing him down on the bed.

In the darkness, his eyes were blurry, but I could feel the intense heat of desire building up within him.

"I'll do it," I whispered, leaving no room for resistance.

Wei Tan didn't object; his breath was intense and powerful. I sat on his crotch, one hand supporting his shoulder and the other slowly moving down his chest, exploring his enticing body with my palm, like a blind person, feeling every inch.

"Ah Jin..." Wei Tan restrained the excitement in his breathing. His hands eagerly caressed my waist, abdomen, and the rising mound of my chest, with his rough fingertips teasing and stimulating.

A tingling sensation spread through my body and breath, as I reached down with my hand and held onto that vigorous thing. My face felt like it was burning as I sensed it growing stronger in my hand. With a gentle touch, I guided it in.

I have to say that this method was more comfortable than any other I have tried before. I lowered myself slowly, and Wei Tan's hand tightened on my skin. As my body was filled, I couldn't help but let out a soft moan, and slowly began to sway my hips.

Wei Tan is a very patient ***lover***. His breath was heavy, yet he remained unhurried, with both hands supporting my waist. We are no strangers to intimacy; he knows where to bring me pleasure and how to synchronize with me. Though it was my first time trying that position, I felt a thrilling novelty, experiencing the true taste of *savoring to the fullest* (eating marrow).
<div class="author-note">
"食髓" (shí suǐ) is a phrase that means to thoroughly enjoy and appreciate something, often referring to a particular experience or pleasure. It comes from the concept of eating the marrow, which is considered the most flavorful and nutritious part of bones.
</div>

But this position is tiring; it didn't take long before I started feeling a bit sore. Wei Tan suddenly changed from being gentle, as he flipped over and got on top, lifted my leg, straightened his back and bumped into me. He was so full of energy, buried so deeply that every thrust made my skin tremble. I can't control myself anymore, I moaned and begged for mercy. 

Just when I was lost in pleasure, he suddenly stopped.

"Fujun..." I opened my eyes, feeling as if my hunger had been taken away abruptly, leaving my heart empty and anxious.

"Call me," his warm breath brushed against my neck.

Fujun..."

Wei Tan seemed to pay no heed, his voice becoming huskier: "Call me."

I paused for a moment, catching my breath, and said, "Ah Tan…"

As the words left my mouth, the thrust suddenly resumed.

Wei Tan curled up my body, with each thrust it was harder, and with each thrust it was deeper. My hands tightly pulled at the quilt, as I felt extreme bliss sweeping through the sky, allowing the last traces of consciousness to burn away….

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The next morning, I was woken up by Wei Tan.

This rogue pinched my nose, and I had to breathe through my mouth, then he covered it with his hand. In the end, I woke up suffocated. 

Upon opening my eyes, Wei Tan was smiling happily, and his curved eyes had a glint in the black pupils. He said, "Furen's spirit is truly impressive. If you were a man, WeiFu would definitely draft you into the navy."

I curled up in the blanket, feeling extremely sore all over my body. I was sound asleep when he woke me up. I squinted at him for a while. The first thing that came to my mind was the incident during yesterday's dinner.

My hand, which was originally about to pinch, suddenly stopped. I glanced at the dim and hazy sky outside the window and asked with a clear and dry throat, "Why did Fujun wake up so early?"

"Today, I'm leaving the city," Wei Tan pinched my chin and quickly got up, lifting the blanket. "The military camp (juntun) is preparing for spring farming, and I need to visit the nearby villages."
<div class="author-note">
军屯(jūntún)-"军屯春耕" refers to the military encampment engaging in spring farming activities. It implies that the military personnel are involved in agricultural work during the spring season, likely to cultivate crops or tend to farmland while stationed in the camp. It is a combination of military duties and agricultural tasks to ensure food production and self-sufficiency.
</div>

"Spring farming?" I paused for a moment, and then I understood. Wei Tan stationed soldiers to cultivate farmland and secure military provisions. At this time of the year, planting should have been completed in various regions.

"For how long will Fujun be going?" I watched him put on a single garment, looking at his strong back, and asked.

"Two days," Wei Tan said. After speaking, he turned around, smiled at me, and came closer, saying, "Furen will be lying alone for two nights, will you miss me?"

He really *took an inch and wanted a foot*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="得寸进尺(décùn-jìnchǐ)-win an inch, want a foot (idiom); fig. not satisfied with small gains"></sup>. My face turned hot, and I shrunk under the blanket to hide myself from his claw.

Wei Tan didn't play around too much, just played hide-and-seek with me and then chuckled while pulling the blanket to cover me.

"For the side room (the concubine)," he hugged me, paused for a moment, as if searching for the right words, and whispered, "Since **Fuqin** let her in, Furen can consider her as an additional maidservant."

Maidservants? I don't think so. We have plenty of maidservants, and Ah Yuan is also a maidservant, but she doesn't live in any side chambers.

However, I was very satisfied with Wei Tan's attitude.

I poked two eyes out from under the blanket.

Wei Tan looked at me with a slight curve at the corner of his lips.

"**Qie** understand," I smiled softly, my voice gentle.

Wei Tan left too early, so when Zhang **Shi** led Ren **Ji** to pay respects, the *zhengshi*, the *zhumu*, and the *zhifu*s were all present, yet the *zhengzhu* was missing.
<div class="author-note">
- 正室 (zhèngshì) — legal/main wife; Fu Jin. <br>
- 主母 (zhǔmǔ) — matriarch; Guo Furen. <br>
- 侄妇 (zhífù) — nephews' wife; other ladies. <br>
- 正主 (zhèngzhǔ) — husband; Wei Tan. 
</div>

Ren **Ji** was dressed in a neat dark garment, perhaps to avoid drawing attention, as the color and style were quite ordinary. However, although I may not like her, being from an artistic background, I have to admit that even without glamorous makeup, her beauty remains exquisite, and her demeanor is still charming.

She bowed to Guo Furen with graceful etiquette, and Guo Furen looked at her with a smiling expression full of affection.
<br>　　

"You have already become a member of this household, thus you are a woman of this residence. In all matters, you should listen to the teachings of your elders, serve your husband, assist the *zhengshi* (main wife), and be diligent without disobedience or defiance." She said to Ren **Ji** with a serious expression.

Ren **Ji** lowered her head and respectfully agreed.

"In the future, **Shao Furen** will be your mistress (or matriarch; *zhumu*). Go and pay your respects," Guo Furen said kindly with a gentle smile.

Ren **Ji** looked at me with subtly clear eyes 

"Greetings, **Shao Furen**," she said with a soft voice.

I watched as she knelt in front of me and bowed respectfully, as I smiled and said nothing.

<hr>
### Aewoo's Ramble ✨️ 

I got butterflies in my stomach reading Fu Jin calling Wei Tan her 'lover'. 🤭
