---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 8: Business"
order: 8
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

On this *moderate wind, beautiful sun*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(idiom) fine sunny weather"></sup> day, there were a number of people praying in the temple. 

Hearing that the new bride of the Prime Minister’s residence was coming over to pray, the *MiaoZhu*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="acolyte in charge of incense in a temple"></sup> quickly came over to welcome. I politely exchanged some greeting words before following him in. 

After making some offerings and reading some prayers, I then invited the *MiaoZhu* to preside over the ceremony. When all of it was completed, it was past the Wu hour (11am-1pm).

I bid goodbye to the *MiaoZhu* and boarded the carriage to leave. The *MiaoZhu* let Ah Yuan guide the carriage and it headed towards the south city and only stopped  when Ah Yuan said “We’ve arrived.”

Upon getting off the carriage, I saw that this was a quiet street and the houses were not big. It seemed that those who lived here were the commoners.

Li Shang’s house was just in front of the carriage,  its doors were wide open. Li Shang stood at the door with Ah Huan’s support. When he saw me coming, he immediately knelt down and bowed. 

“**GuanShi**, do get up quickly.” I hurriedly stepped forward to help him as Father never let his children receive great greetings (as in kneel and bow) from Li Shang. 

“Furen has saved us three, father and children, from calamity, Li Shang can’t repay it even if I die!” Li Shang choked with emotions as he spoke. 

I blushed with embarrassment and said, “What talk of death. Why does **GuanShi** speak of this? If **GuanShi** wants to give thanks, I appreciate it in my heart. There is no need to be like this!” After that, I stared at Li siblings standing beside. They understood and quickly helped Li Shang up and soothed him softly.

After a while, Li Shang raised his head which had tears all over his face. Seeing me looking at him, he felt a little embarrassed as he wiped his eyes and sighed, “It’s difficult for Furen to come here, **Mou**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="某 is used to refer to oneself in a humble manner."></sup> has forgotten one’s manner.”

I smiled. “One heard that **GuanShi**’s health has improved, upon seeing it now it seems that it is true.”

Li Shang was stunned when he heard those words, and shook his head as he smiled bitterly. 

After exchanging conventional greetings, everyone was delighted. I let the servants (of the Wei Residence) waited outside the house, brought Ah Yuan along and followed Li Shang and his son into the house. 

This house was not big and the hall was not considered spacious, but it was kept neat and tidy. 

After sitting down, Li Shang personally brewed some tea and placed it on the desk in front of me before speaking in shame, “One's humble home is simple and crude, and can only serve rough tea to entertain Furen.”

I thankfully replied, “The tea is enough”

Looking at Li Shang, he was completely different from the last time he was sick. Not only was he in good spirits, but his face no longer looked wan. If it were not because of his thin figure, it was impossible to know that this was a person who had suffered a serious illness. 

“How has **GuanShi** been lately?” I took a sip of tea and asked with a light smile. 

Li Shang replied, “**Mou**’s health is no longer in serious trouble, and this house is  also very comfortable. Everything is due to Furen's kindness.”

I shook my head and smiled as I said, “It’s just a matter of **lifting one’s hand**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="idioms; a very slight effort"></sup>, **GuanShi** must not mention it again.” After that, I cut straight to the point, “**GuanShi** had mentioned in the letter that there are a few types of business that you are interested in, One wonders what they are?”

Li Shang nodded, glanced outside the courtyard before seriously speaking, “It is indeed so.” After that, he took out a piece of paper from his sleeve, on which there were a few lines, listing the type of business.

“First, clothing material. Currently, summer is approaching and thus clothing material for winter is cheap. It can be bought and stock up.” Li Shang explained each line. “Second, meat products. There are a lot of people rearing domestic animals and there are many rich people who are newly arrived, thus do not know where to purchase or sell it. If one were to be a vendor, it would be a lucrative business. Third, alcohol. Yongzhou was once the hometown for alcohol and almost every household knew how to brew wine. Even if it’s wartime, there would be some remaining and they can be bought to be sold everywhere else. Fourth, jewels and valuable weapons…..”

Speaking about this business, I frowned, “Jewels and valuable weapons, if this was a period of prosperity then it would be a rare commodity. However the world is currently in chaos and the wealthy ones would dump it in exchange for rice and staples, thus this is not ideal.” I then asked, “Is there any business on food products or feed?”

Li Shang shook his head, “Feed is a commodity in shortage and each area’s checkpoint is very stringent. Even if there are supplies for feed, the investment would be huge and in addition to the chaotic logistics during the journey, the risks are high.”

I understood and continued looking down the list. Upon seeing the last one which was ‘medicinal herbs’, my eyes became fixated. 

“Medicinal herbs?” I was astounded.

Li Shang was embarrassed and smiled, “This was what I thought of when I was sick, thus it was added at the end. With the chaos under Heaven (in the world), people from all over the place are pouring into Yongdu. The sick and injured ones all require medicinal herbs. Currently in Yongdu, even the cost of ordinary medicinal herbs have risen by twenty times the original price. Thus by trading medicine, there would be considerable benefits.”

I muttered to myself and looked at him, “I remembered that **FuQin**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="father"></sup> once mentioned that **GuanShi** used to be in charge of a medicine shop?”

Li Shang said, “It is exactly so.”

“Is the route for the medicinal herbs still viable?”

Li Shang frowned, “If it was a few years ago, the route would still be smooth, but if one were to utilise it now, we would need some time to inquire secretly.”

I nodded my head, “I think that medicinal herb is workable but at the moment, there is no need to rush so **GuanShi** can start to scout it out. As there is demand in the market for meat products, it is also workable. It’s just that for clothing materials, it would take time and effort to store it, thus I think that this can be temporarily let go. What are **GuanShi** thoughts on this?”

Li Shang smiled gently, “**Mou** feels the same way.”

I took a deep breath and made up my mind before taking out two gold ingots from my sleeves and placing them on the table.

“This is my last bit of wealth. May **GuanShi** take it. Three tenths of the profit will be split to **GuanShi** and I will be accountable for the losses.”

Li Shang’s expressions changed and h e quickly said, “It is already a big grace for Furen to fund, how would I dare to have a split of profits? This matter cannot be done!”

I smiled, There might not necessarily be any profits so GuanShi should just listen to my words. It is already difficult to pedal products and in the future, there would not be just these few things, how can **GuanShi** gain nothing in return?”

Li Shang no longer spoke. His expression became solemn and he kept the gold ingots and bowed to me. “May Furen rest assured.”

Since the matters were settled, I should return.

Li Shang got up to send me out but after taking two steps, he suddenly said, “Furen, **Mou** feels that there are some things that need to be said. Furen is currently not short of money so it is inappropriate for these things to be done.”

“It is indeed inappropriate.” I smiled, “So one has to borrow **GuanShi**’s hand.”

Li Shang shook his head, “**Mou** does not mean that, Furen is the daughter-in-law of the Wei Family, so what is the use of having money? Matters of trading and peddling are always of lower class. Furen has a noble background, and one feared that it would bury one’s identity,”

I did not accept his words, “Who said that I will keep on staying in the Wei Family?”

Li Shang was shocked and stunned.

I saw his expression and knew that I had gone overboard with my words, “**GuanShi**, so what about having a noble background? Wealth is loved by the world and it is something that one would not dislike to have more.”

I smiled as I looked at him, “You are the steward that **Fuqin** had appointed. As long as there is still one person of the Fu residence, you are worthy of the title.”

Li Shang looked at me and his deep eyes became filled with moisture. 

He no longer spoke as he bowed to me deeply. 

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The carriage started rumbling as it headed towards the streets’ direction.

Through the swaying bamboo curtains, I saw Li Shang and son still standing at the front of the doors as they watched the carriage leave. Only when those figures disappeared from the corner, I then turned my head back. After completing a big task, my heart felt heavy yet smug and satisfied. 

Those two ingots from today were the last of my wealth. If there was still a need to use money in future, one will have to sell the jewelleries from my dowry. Despite that, I wasn’t in the least regretful.

I had to admit that my intentions were impure and I had to exploit the friendship between Father and Li Shang. 

However I had no ill intentions. I needed money while Li Shang and family also needed money, hence there were no conflicts. If friendship could make this relationship tighter, why not use it?

The carriage quickly returned to the Wei Residence and when one entered the gates, one saw Wei Rong heading towards me. 

“**ZhangSao**, have you heard it?” She said cheerfully, “**FuQin** and **XiongZhang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="eldest brother"></sup> will be returning tomorrow!”
