---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 95: Bianque (Part 1)"
order: 95
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /c95/
---

I knew that Wei Jue was the *eldest son*, but it was the first time I learned that he had a biological brother besides his *clan brothers*.

<div class="author-note">
长子 (Zhǎngzǐ): The eldest son, often carries the primary responsibility for the family line and ancestral rites.<br>
Eldest son in the generation could also mean the eldest son of the patriarch, like Wei Tan. Wei Xian is older than him but the eldest son (in the generation) is Wei Tan as he is the eldest son of the Head of the Wei Clan<br>
族兄弟 (Zú xiōngdì): Clan brothers. These are male cousins or relatives who share the same paternal ancestor and surname but are not from the same immediate household.
</div>

This person, named Kang, is the third son and is Wei Jue's younger half-brother. When he was young, under the decision of Wei Jue's grandfather, Wei Kang was adopted by a childless uncle. According to Zhou **Shi**, Wei Kang has a perverse temperament, is lazy and hates work, and was once on very bad terms with Wei Jue. After Wei Jue rose in rebellion, almost all of the Wei family's brothers followed him, except for Wei Kang, who remained in Longxi.

That night, the family gathered together to welcome us with a meal. However, due to the mourning period, the food was plain and without meat dishes. Moreover, two of this family's nephews were suddenly absent, which cast a shadow over everyone's spirits.

Wei Jue had a headache. After the meal, he waved his hand and told everyone to go back and rest. The banquet was considered over.

Together with Wei Tan, I returned to the courtyard. We passed through a corridor, and suddenly, a figure emerged at the corner ahead. When our eyes met, I was momentarily stunned, it was Ren **Ji**.

Upon seeing us, surprise flickered across her face. She quickly bowed and said, "Greetings, **Da Gongzi**, **Shao Furen**."

I remained composed but glanced at Wei Tan. He was looking at Ren **Ji** with a calm expression.

"En," he replied.

"Where is Ren **Ji** heading?" I smiled, speaking with warmth and courtesy.

Ren **Ji** lowered her gaze and spoke softly, "The incense in the Buddha Hall is running low. **Qie** on her way to the steward office to fetch some more."

"Very well," I nodded, my gaze subtly assessing her. It had been a while since we last met, and though Ren **Ji**'s attire was modest, her beauty remained captivating and graceful.

"Go ahead," Wei Tan said.

Ren **Ji** acknowledged with another bow, then lowered her head and departed.

Upon returning to our room, I took a bath. The night was still relatively young.

After Wei Tan finished bathing, Wang Hui came to find him, mentioning that there was something to report. Wei Tan went out again after hearing it.

I idled in the room, instructing Ah Yuan to rest while I sat before the mirror, lost in thought.

As I gazed at my reflection in the mirror, sudden memories from the past flooded my mind.

In the past, I overheard snippets of conversation from my mother and the noblewomen. They spoke of a certain woman from a certain household, when pregnant, had her husband take a new concubine. There were also tales of women whose appearance waned after childbirth, causing their husbands' affection to wane as well. Although I didn't fully grasp it back then, I earnestly concluded two things: that giving birth was a perilous affair, and that men were fickle in their affections.

Of course, back then, I had Pei Qian, and I believed neither of those things would happen to me. Now, I find great joy in the prospect of pregnancy. Yet, when I reflect on it, I realize my past thoughts weren't entirely without reason.

I knew Wei Tan was not the kind of person who couldn't control his desires. However, one couldn't prevent others from harboring ill intentions.

For example, Ren **Ji**. She is his legally recognized concubine, and she possesses a striking beauty. I looked into the mirror and stood up. The face in the mirror remained the same, but the figure had lost its former graceful and delicate contours, now resembling nothing more than a water bucket.

I gently placed my hand on my abdomen, feeling a sudden restlessness wash over me. I let out a sigh.

"Why the sigh?" Wei Tan's voice suddenly echoed from behind me.

I startled and turned around, not knowing when he had entered. He looked at me with a smile and teased, "Did I startle you?"

I couldn't help but glare at him and said, "Fujun came back without a word."

"Didn't I just talk?" Wei Tan approached, comforting me as he gently patted my head, then bent down to look at my belly.

"Has there been movement today?" he inquired.

"En," I nodded.

Speaking of the child, my mood suddenly brightened. I smiled and added, "It felt stronger than yesterday, probably a kick."

"Oh?" Wei Tan also smiled, wrapping his arms around me. "Then it's likely a boy."

"Why is that so?"

"My mother once mentioned that when I was in the womb, I kicked quite often."

I shrugged skeptically. "That's not necessarily the case. Maybe tomorrow the movements will change back to using hands, and then it might be a daughter."

"A daughter is good too," Wei Tan looked at me, his lips curved in a smile. "Being as beautiful as her mother would be even better."

While I appreciated his words, my wet nurse had cautioned me not to put too much trust in a man's sweet words.

I gently pushed him away. "It's getting late, Fujun should change clothes."

Even though today was eventful, as I lay down, I realized I wasn't quite ready to sleep. Wei Tan was beside me, leaning on a pillow, turning a page of a book slowly.

I got up and leaned over to take a quick glance. The writing was dense and covered the page, filled with words about soldiers and generals, not the kind of reading I enjoyed.

"Can't sleep?" Wei Tan looked at me.

"En."

He moved aside to give me some space, extending his arm.

I smiled and found a comfortable position, one that didn't put pressure on my belly but allowed me to lean against him. It was a habit we had developed on the road. Perhaps due to the pregnancy, I found it a bit difficult to fall asleep, so Wei Tan would do his best to accompany me at times like this. I discovered that listening to his heartbeat while nestled in his arms was very soothing. So, Wei Tan would hold me like this, until his arm grew numb or I drifted off into a drowsy slumber.

Since leaving Runan, we've been very restrained in our intimate moments as a married couple. This could be considered the most affectionate we've been in our daily life.

"Today, **Qie** heard **Jiushi** say that **San Shufu** is coming over?" I asked, not particularly eager to accompany him.

"En," Wei Tan nodded. "Two months ago, Xianbei invaded Longxi. **San Shufu** led five thousand local men, defeated the Xianbei, and impressed **Fuqin** and the Empror. **Fuqin** recommended him as the Governor of Longxi."
<div class="author-note">
鲜卑 - Xianbei, ethnic group in north China
</div> 

I was surprised at first, but after some thought, I understood. With Wei Jue's recent defeat, it was a critical time to both reassure the people and demonstrate his capability. This **San Shufu** was a family member, so it was only natural to give him a strong endorsement.

"Furen has not yet met **San Shufu**?" Wei Tan set the book aside and asked me.

"En," I replied.

"I'm not sure if I've seen him enough to count five times," Wei Tan said. "He's not particularly close with the family."

"So it's like that," I said.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

On the second day, I specifically had Ah Yuan go and inquire regarding Ren **Ji**'s matter.

Not long after, she returned with the report. She said that Ren **Ji** had been staying in the Buddha Hall for the past few months. Recently, when Wei Tan returned to the capital, he had been constantly on the move, rarely coming back to the Wei residence.

Upon hearing this, I felt a sense of reassurance settle in my heart.

Today was supposed to be uneventful, but Wei Jue's headache worsened last night. After lunch, Wei Tan returned with someone he brought along; Wei Jiao.

"A disciple of Zhou **Bianque**?" Guo Furen's furrowed brows, filled with worry, suddenly relaxed at the mention of this title. However, as she looked at Wei Jiao, she also observed him with a puzzled expression.

Wei Jiao looked at her, his head held high, and his thick, arched brows raised with great confidence.

"That's correct," Wei Tan said, "Wei **Bianque** is exceptionally skilled in medicine. I specifically invited him to give **Fuqin** a diagnosis."

Guo Furen nodded. "Very well, please have Wei **Bianque** come inside." After speaking, she instructed a servant to lead the way.

As the room couldn't accommodate too many people, I stayed outside. I instructed the steward to prepare some paper and ink for Wei Jiao to write the prescription.

"Furen," Ah Yuan glanced into the room and whispered, "Can Wei Jiao really cure **Chengxiang**?"

I gave a faint smile. "I don't know."

Before Ah Yuan could say anything else, a loud shout came from inside the room: "Incompetent doctor! What kind of needle are you trying to use? Do you intend to harm me?"
