---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 97: Wei Kang"
order: 97
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
permalink: /c97/
---

It was already the Tenth Month, and the weather had turned quite cold. 

On the day when Wei Tan's **San Shufu**, Wei Kang, arrived at the residence, the entire family gathered for a feast.

As for Wei Kang, from what I see, he doesn't bear a strong resemblance to Wei Jue. He has a slender figure, and his facial features are not as square as Wei Jue's. Instead, his beard is long and smooth. Draped in a large cloak, he exudes a touch of an ethereal and refined demeanor.

Although Wei Jue and him are biological brothers, their interactions don't seem as relaxed and casual as with other *shubo*s (uncles) from the clan. It appears they share a certain level of familiarity, yet it's not without its intricacies. I caught a glance from Zhou **Shi** gave a look that seemed like a smile yet not a smile.
<div class="author-note">
似笑非笑 (sìxiàofēixiào) - (idiom) like a smile yet not a smile; a facial expression that is ambiguous or hard to interpret, suggesting a mixture of emotions like amusement, irony, or a concealed smile.
</div>

Wei Jue instructed his son and nephews to pay their respects to Wei Kang. Wei Tan stepped forward first and greeted Wei Kang.

"This is Mengjing?" Wei Kang looked at Wei Tan, stroking his beard with a faint smile. "Indeed, what an imposing presence."

Wei Tan modestly responded, "**Shufu** has overpraised."

Wei Kang then looked at me and asked, "Is this Mengjing's wife, the daughter of Fu **Situ**?"

Wei Tan replied, "Yes, it is."

I lowered my head and greeted, "Greeting, **San Shufu**."

Wei Kang, with a smile, accepted the greeting, then turned to Wei Zhao and said, "One believes this must be Zhongming."

Wei Zhao also bowed and said, "Greetings, **San Shufu**."

Wei Kang looked him over, showing an appreciative expression. "Your appearance is indeed magnificent, living up to your reputation. Back in the year, when **Mou** was in Longxi, One heard that Zhongming was about to marry a princess, but One regretted not having come to congratulate you."

Wei Zhao smiled and gestured for Liang Hui to come forward and pay her respects. Just as Liang Hui was about to bow, Wei Kang quickly stopped her and said with a smile, "**Mou** is but a subject, how could One dare to accept the courtesy from **Gongzhu**? Absolutely not!"

Wei Jue looked at them and smiled. "The ladies of the Wei clan each have their own unique qualities. If the younger generation wishes to offer their respects, what harm is there in letting Yuanjian accept?"

Wei Kang smiled and nodded in agreement. "Both of my nephews are so outstanding. *Di*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="younger brother"></sup> is truly pleased."

The rest of the sons and nephews also paid their respects to Wei Kang. After a brief exchange of greetings, servants led the way into the residence.

At the banquet, there was still no wine or meat, nor was there any music or entertainment. The atmosphere was not as lively as it used to be during festivals or gatherings. Everyone quietly dined at their respective seats. After the meal, Wei Jue instructed the household attendants to prepare tea, and he discussed some matters from Longxi with Wei Kang. Wei Kang appeared very respectful, exuding an air of a scholar. He also engaged Wei Zhao in a discussion about poetry and prose, mentioning that he had seen a copy of Wei Zhao's poems brought back from the capital by scholars in Yongdu, and he admired them greatly.

"**Zhi Er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="侄儿(zhí'ér) - brother's son; nephew"></sup> is lacking in talent and knowledge, unworthy of **Shufu**'s praise," Wei Zhao replied.

"Why is Zhongming being so modest?" Wei Kang held his tea cup. "In **Mou**'s view, it is indeed a well-deserved recognition."

Deserved recognition? I heard these words with some skepticism. However, Guo Furen maintained a smile throughout, while Wei Jue continued to nibble on candied fruits, his expression inscrutable.

<br>
"It seems that **San Shufu** is a mild-mannered person." Back in our room, I hung the clothes that Wei Tan had taken off on a peg, and said, "Sitting together with **Jiushi**, there's no sign of discord either."

Wei Tan took the belt from my hand and fastened it himself. "I am not very familiar with *(San Shufu**. **Fuqin** had some disagreements with him when they were younger. Over the years, **Fuqin** has seldom returned to Longxi, so his relationship with **San Shufu** has also grown distant.

I nodded.

"Tomorrow, Gongyang Gui and I are going to ride horses on the outskirts of the city. Will Furen be joining us?" Wei Tan asked.

Gongyang Gui? I hesitated for a moment, then smiled. "**Qie** plans to visit the Danxia Temple."

"Danxia Temple?" Wei Tan looked surprised, then glanced at my belly and furrowed his brow. "The weather is cold, and the mountain paths might be covered in frost. Why do you want to go?"

I replied, "At the beginning of the year, **Qie** went to Danxia Temple to pray for a child. A few days ago, **Qie** dreamt of deities, which reminded that One hadn't fulfilled my vow. Today, **Qie** sent a servant to scout the route, and they reported that the weather has been clear these past few days, and the mountain path is stable."

Wei Tan raised an eyebrow, seeming a bit disappointed.

"Keeping company with gods and Buddhas instead of your husband, en?" He pinched my nose and murmured softly.

I gently pulled his hand away and pursed my lips. "**Qie** simply wishes to ease One's mind. Moreover, these days are auspicious, but once the opportunity passes, it may rain again."

Wei Tan fell silent, gave my head a pat, and then left to bathe.

Watching his departing figure, I let out a sigh of relief.

In truth, seeking the gods is a pretense, fulfilling a vow is also a pretense. My visit to the Danxia Temple tomorrow is actually a pre-arranged meeting with Ruochan. Some days ago, I asked Li Huan to pass Gongyang Gui's letter to Ruochan, but I received no response. It wasn't until yesterday that she sent a message saying she wanted to meet with me.

Tomorrow, Wei Tan will meet with Gongyang Gui, and I will meet with Ruochan.

It's quite a coincidence.

<br>
On the next day, wrapped in thick clothing, I got on the carriage and left the house.

As usual, the carriage was lined with thick cushions, and an extra layer of fur was added to the curtains to block the cold wind.

In the back garden of Danxia Temple, Ruochan was wrapped in a thick brocade robe, reclining on a couch, watching. Beside her, the scent of tea and smoke wafted as a young maid brewed tea.

Upon seeing me, Ruochan dismissed the young maid, who withdrew and left.

"They say Fu Furen's prayer for a child through the gods has indeed come to fruition," she smiled.

I also smiled and took a seat directly across from her on the couch.

Ruochan kept her gaze fixed on my belly, seemingly quite curious.

"Buddhist scriptures?" I noticed the peacock feather scripture on her couch.

"En."

"You also study Buddhist scriptures?" I was surprised.

Ruochan didn't seem to think much of it. "Studying scriptures calms the mind, why not do it with pleasure?" With that, she lazily stood up and poured tea at the table, then handed it to me.

I took it and said, "Today, my husband and Gongyang **Gongzi** have gone horseback riding."

"Oh?" Ruochan sat back on the couch, her expression placid.

"Have you met him?" I asked.

"No."

I was surprised. "He didn't came to see you?"

"He came." Ruochan said indifferently, "I refused to meet him."

I looked at her, I didn't say anything. Her attitude was within my expectations.

When Gongyang Gui left, Ruochan was worried about his safety. She strongly advised against it, even going so far as to plead with the Gongyang family. But Gongyang Gui still left, heedless of her words. If I were in her shoes, I would be saddened too.

However, I came here to fulfill a promise. Gongyang Gui has been kind to me, and I should repay him with some kindness in return.

"Ruochan, do you know why I went to Jiangdong this time?" I deliberately asked.

"I've heard," Ruochan replied with a faint smile. "I also heard that this time it was **Da Gongzi** who came to your rescue again."

I felt a bit awkward but was determined not to be bothered by her. I recounted how I was captured and escaped in Jiangdong in great detail. Every time I mentioned Gongyang Gui, I painted an elaborate picture.

While sipping tea, Ruochan listened attentively. Her eyes were slightly lowered, as if she was earnestly listening yet also lost in thought elsewhere.

"If it weren't for Gongyang **Gongzi**'s protection at that time, not to mention the child in my womb, even my own life would have been hard to preserve," I said. "Gongyang **Gongzi** is kind and righteous, truly someone one can rely on."

Ruochan, however, only gave a faint smile.

"He has always been kind and righteous towards his brothers," she said with a cold smile. "When Zhongxun was in danger, he tried to rescue him but couldn't. You are Zhongxun's sister, so of course he would help you. It's the same for those other brothers from the *Jianghu*. No matter how dangerous the situation, he would risk his life to save them. When I begged him (not to go), he wouldn't even turn his head to respond."

Ruochan's voice was somewhat agitated. She paused, took a deep breath. "He is kind and righteous, but what he cares about isn't me."

I fell silent and didn't say anything more.

At this moment, the water on the tea stove started to boil again. I was about to go attend to it, but Ruochan said, "Let me."

I could only withdraw my hand.

Ruochan poured the tea and was about to add water. Just then, a servant hurriedly entered and bowed to Ruochan, saying, "**Zhuren**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="master/mistress"></sup>, **Chengxiang** Residence's **Da Gongzi** and Gongyang **Gongzi** are here."

Ruochan and I exchanged a glance, and she asked the servant, "Where are they?"

"They arrived at the foot of the mountain when I came to report. They are probably on the mountain path by now," the servant replied.

Ruochan remained composed and said, "Immediately gather the table, couch, and tea stove into the side room."

The servant agreed and left to summon two others from outside the courtyard to help with the packing.

"What a disappointment," Ruochan looked at me.

I asked her, "Aren't you staying?You and I are acquaintances. It is natural for us to meet by chance when worshiping gods in the temple."

Ruochan's lips curved slightly, and she let out a soft sigh. "You don't need to worry about my affairs."

When Wei Tan and Gongyang Gui appeared at the front gate of the courtyard, I was already being supported by Ah Yuan. I strolled along the wall, casually admiring the red leaves on a few trees as if taking a leisurely walk in a courtyard.

"Fujun?" I glanced at him, showing a mix of surprise and joy. "How can Fujun be here?"

Wei Tan smiled, taking my hand from A Yuan. "**Weifu** rode with Gongyang **Gongzi** to this place. Thinking that Furen is here praying, One came to take a look."

I understood and looked towards Gongyang Gui, smiling and giving a slight bow. "Gongyang **Gongzi**."

"Furen." Gongyang Gui returned the greeting. He looked a bit thinner than when we last parted, but he still stood tall. I couldn't help but look in the direction where Ruochan had left, only to find it empty.

"Is Furen enjoying the red leaves?" Wei Tan asked me.

"It is exactly sk," I smiled.

"Only Furen? This temple seems quite deserted," Wei Tan remarked.

"It's not just **Qie**," I smiled. "Just now, another Furen came to pray as well, but she has already left." As I spoke, I casually glanced at Gongyang Gui.

He looked at me, a faint, almost imperceptible bitter smile playing on his lips.

"**Da Gongzi** and Furen, please enjoy your time in the temple. **Mou** will take One's leave first." Gongyang Gui gave us a bow.

"Just arrived, and now already leaving?" Wei Tan was surprised.

Gongyang Gui said, "The matter we discussed earlier requires further discussion with a friend of mine."

Wei Tan smiled, "In that case, thank you, Zhongping."

Gongyang Gui pressed his lips together, glanced at me, then turned and walked away.

"What were Fujun and Gongyang **Gongzi** discussing?" It was just the two of us left in the courtyard, so I asked Wei Tan. "Did Gongyang **Gongzi** agree to take an official position?"

"Not yet," Wei Tan replied. "But we reached an agreement on another matter."

"Oh?"

Wei Tan looked at me, his gaze meaningful. "The 12,000 taels of money that Furen owed, **Weifu** already paid back."

"Why that expression?" Wei Tan raised an eyebrow. "Has Zhongping deceived **Weifu**?"

I quickly shook my head, then after a moment, I said, "This... um, was it Gongyang **Gongzi** who mentioned it?"

"Who else but him?" 

I let out a sigh of relief, but also found it funny. Of course, it was Gongyang Gui. It was only natural for him to collect money on behalf of Ma Kui's group. I was too nervous, always afraid of implicating Gongyang Gui, and worried about my business being exposed. Gongyang Gui wouldn't be so foolish as to tell Wei Tan my secrets, he had nothing to gain from it…

"**Weifu** is not very pleased," Wei Tan suddenly said.

"En?" I looked at him.

His face was dark and inscrutable. "**Weigu**'s life, it's worth only twelve thousand."

I was both angry and amused. I pinched his hand and said, "They initially demanded a hundred thousand. Fujun might as well have paid it all."

Wei Tan laughed and embraced me, his eyes sparkling. "Your words are quite true. The items I traded are worth much more than a hundred thousand."

I was puzzled. "Items you traded?"

Just as Wei Tan was about to speak, a servant came running and shouted, "**Da Gongzi**! **Shao Furen**!"

Wei Tan asked, "What's the matter?"

The servant, clearly exhausted and sweating despite the cold, gasped for breath. "**Da**, **Da Gongzi**... something bad has happened at the residence! Guo Furen, Guo Furen has arrested Ren **Ji**... and she said... she said she intends to beat her to death!"
<div class="author-note">
杖毙 (Zhàngbì): To beat to death with a staff or pole. This was a common and brutal form of capital punishment or "household discipline"
</div>
