---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 10: Family Dinner"
order: 10
---

I could only walk up to Wei Tan and help him unbuckle the armour.

Previously when I was in the family in Chang'an, I used to see older brothers unbuckling their armour. It was not difficult to undo it as one needed to first remove the belt then take off the shoulder armour and breastplate. It was only untying a few knots. 

However, even though I knew it was so, I still encountered some difficulties at the beginning. Wei Tan’s belt was inlaid with gold and it was secured firmly that even when I tried to pry it apart, it did not move at all. 

A hand suddenly covered mine. It was warm but it possessed a type of strength. 

“I will do it.” Wei Tan said. He took my hands off and his knuckles seemed to be on the brass buckle and in two or three moves, the belt was undone. 

The armour loosened in a moment and the chains tinkled as they swayed. Wei Tan placed the belt on the rack before turning to me and opened up his arms slightly. 

That meant that it was up to me to do what was next. 

I reached out and started undoing the shoulder armour and breastplate. 

Those knots were easy to untie and I removed them a piece at a time. Wei Tan placed them on the rack. 

He had hurried an entire day of journey and thus when his middle garment was revealed, I could smell a strong scent of sweat. 

Wei Tan walked over to the water basin and washed his face. The water splashed everywhere and in a short time, he got up and used the towel to dry the water off his face and neck. 

The middle garments were half opened but it was already wet. I went over and reached out to untie his belt and took off his top. 

His muscular chest and arms were exposed right before my eyes. I took a glance back up before turning to wet the towel and helped Wei Tan wipe his back. 

The moisture left a dull glow on his skin and under the candlelight, the complexion around his neck was particularly dark but smooth. Using an adequate amount of strength, I began from the back of his neck and wiped downwards. With just a cloth separating my palm, I could feel the rise and fall of the muscles underneath his skin. 

“Are you used to the house?” Wei Tan suddenly asked. 

“The in-laws are very kind.” I had picked the most error-free words to reply. 

Wei Tan nodded his head. 

“A few things have been added to this room.” After a short while, Wei Tan glanced around and remarked. 

“It is exactly so.” I replied, “**GuShi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="mother-in-law"></sup> instructed the steward to send a number of things over to this side.”

Once the stench of sweat was wiped off by the towel, I could smell a faint scent. It seemed to be the freshness from the moisture and yet also the grass that one smelt from that night. I stared at the skin in front of me that had turned red from my wiping and placed the towel into the basin of water to clean and wring it dry after a moment. 

I walked over to Wei Tan and started to wipe the front of his body. 

Although it was not the first time that I saw Wei Tan’s body, when my sight landed on the contours of those muscles, I felt my cheeks warm up.

In the past, I had never felt that there was anything special about a man’s body. When Pei Qian was young, he used to change clothes in front of me. Back then, he was thin and lanky, with a pale and delicate complexion, just like a piece of porcelain originating from a famous kiln. When he saw me staring, he teased me for being lecherous but I disagreed. One felt that females were also born like that and there was not much difference between a male and female.

In Chang'an, I would sometimes take the carriage through the city and catch sight of those strong men that bared their chest on the roadside. Their physique differed from Pei Qian’s as their muscles were very firm. My nanny would wear an expression of disdain and forbid me from peeking, saying that only those coarse people from the countryside were born like that. At that time, I had learnt that those who grew up looking like Pei Qian were the true sons of nobility.

Thus, the present Wei Tan made me confused. He was of noble-born but was akin to a strong man in the marketplace. That kind with a broad chest, strong, firm arms and an abdomen that was unlike that of my previous husband’s. Han Gang had a flabby stomach, but this one was taut and flat instead. A question rose in my heart. Shouldn’t all men have big bellies?

“Thinking about what?” Wei Tan’s voice rang by my ears. 

I looked up to find him staring at me. 

“...”

I was stunned. Just when I was fumbling for an answer, he said in a low voice. “Look at where your hand is wiping.”

I followed his instructions and looked before becoming embarrassed. 

Just now I was thinking about those messy things and the towel in my hand went all the way down and the dripping water had drenched a large part of his pants. 

“Ah…” I was somewhat at a loss as to what to do, I quickly put down the wet towel and picked up  a dry one. However, just as I was about to wipe the pants, Wei Tan grabbed my hand firmly. 

“No need.” He took a deep breath and smiled a smile that did not look like a smile. “Bring over a set of dry clothes.”

I looked at him and only felt my cheeks getting warm, I complied and walked towards the chest. 

When I finally found the clothes, Wei Tan had already walked behind the screen. I handed him the clothes from over the screen. One could only hear the sound of clothes rustling. Not too long after, Wei Tan walked out. The clothes wrapped around his toned stature and the size was just right. 

“How is it?” He asked. 

I was surprised, “En?”

Wei Tan said profoundly, “You keep looking at my body.”

My face heated up and I retorted, “I am not looking at your body.”

Wei Tan’s brows slightly quirked up, “Then what are you looking at?” 

I opened my mouth to speak but no word came out. 

Wei Tan did not seem to be in a rush as he glanced out the window before looking at me again. “The family banquet has yet to start. I have bought back some tea from Shudi. How about Furen accompany me to taste it?”

The crickets were calling outside the windows and the copper kettle sitting on top of the charcoal furnace was making ‘gu-gu’ sounds in the room as a white smoke wafted. 

Wei Tan and I were sitting opposite each other on the couch.  I placed the tea bricks from the Shudi into the copper kettle, the fine tea leaves rhythmically danced in the boiling water. Not long after, white form gradually gathered on the surface. 

Back in Chang'an, my father was known for his love towards tea. Whenever he was at leisure, he indulged himself in drinking tea and would always personally brew it, reluctant to let anyone lend a hand. When I was very young, I followed my father around and I learned to distinguish the quality of the water and the colour of tea from my father and could tell the origin of the tea with a single sip. 

However, because I was very lazy, the technique for making tea was learnt so badly that Father had never once drank the tea I made. Second Brother had once sneered at me, saying that in the future, if I happen to encounter a man who would drink the tea I brewed without frowning, I must decisively marry him. I wasn’t the least bit irked and had even proudly replied that there was no need to encounter such a person as Ah Qian was the one. 

“Shangyu’s celadon?” Wei Tan picked up a tea cup from the table and said suddenly. 

<div class="author-note">
Celadon is a term for pottery denoting both wares glazed in the jade green celadon colour, also known as greenware or "green ware", and a type of transparent glaze, often with small cracks, that was first used on greenware, but later used on other porcelains. In this case, Wei Tan was talking about the tea cup.
</div>

“It is exactly so.” I said, “Fujun knows about pottery?”

“No.” Wei Tan turned the tea cup over, “It’s written on it.”

I: “.........”

Wei Tan calmly put down the tea cup, “I am a coarse man and do not understand or appreciate elegant things like pottery.”

The self proclaimed coarse man even invited me to appreciate tea. I gave a small smile and used a silver spoon to pick up the foam, “A person who can appreciate pottery might not be a General.”

Wei Tan looked at me, the corner of his lips curved slightly. 

“Every time when the family letters were delivered over when I was out fighting the war, they would be filled with praises of Furen’s virtuousness.” He continued, “My courtyard has been abandoned for a long time, and it’s very different when I come back today.”

“Fujun has overpraised.” I said humbly.

The tea in the kettle was boiling again and I placed the foam, which was previously taken out, back into the tea before letting the servants remove the charcoal furnace, then poured the tea into the teacups.

"Fujun, please have a taste." I placed the tea cup down and handed it to Wei Tan.

Wei Tan blew onto the teacup, paused momentarily and tasted it.

"Does it taste good?" I asked.

"It is rather good." Wei Tan nodded.

I smile slightly. My aptitude was still inferior but at least my husband could deal with my tea-brewing skills. Father and Eldest Brother would feel comforted.

"Fujun's expedition, does it went smoothly?" I also took a sip of tea and asked.

Wei Tan said, "Shangke and Shangdong have been pacified and the Central Plains has been returned to the courts.” After finishing, he looked at me, "When I was returning, Han **Gong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Lord Han, FL's ex-inlaws)"></sup> was still the governor of Laiyang, and Han Guang had married a new wife last month."

I was astonished.

Wei Tan took a sip of tea, his expression was very natural as if he was merely speaking about what he saw and heard during the journey.

"So it's like that." I nodded my head after a moment. 

"I remembered that Furen had married over to Laiyang at the age of fifteen." He said.

"It is exactly so." I replied.

Wei Tan’s eyes slightly narrowed, seemingly savouring the aroma of the tea, "I remember that it was just after the **Duan Wu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Dragon Boat Festival"></sup>, when Chang'an was still peaceful."

I was somewhat surprised, "Fujun remember?"

Wei Tan smiled slightly, "I was also at Chang'an at that time. Who doesn't know about the matter of Furen's marrying off from the Palace?"

I thought about it and nodded. 

"Seems like it has been a long time ago." Wei Tan said. 

"En, it has been five years." Ladling out the tea, I poured the warm tea into our respective cups.

My heart was somewhat unhappy. It was not because one was shunning one’s past, since it was not a secret anyways. However, Wei Tan had brought it up too straightforwardly and I disliked it.

“Now that Furen has entered the Wei doors, there is no need to think about matters of the past.” Wei Tan did not seem to have any intention of continuing as he placed the teacup down.

I smiled lightly, "Understood."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the main hall of the Wei Residence, the lights were splendid and the tables were lined side by side in rows. 

When Wei Tan and I arrived, the hall was already filled with people. All the elders and sons of the Wei family as well as their family members in Yongdu were invited to the banquet. Everyone had joyously gathered and were chatting merrily. 

“Meng Jing has arrived.” Guo Furen smiled as she looked at Wei Tan. 

Wei Tan stepped forwards and bowed, “Greeting, **FuQin**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Father"></sup> and **MuQin**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Mother"></sup>.”

I also followed him and bowed.

Wei Jue took a look at Wei Tan, and then looked at me as he smiled and said, “Meng Jing, it is a family banquet today, so there is no need to dine separately. Just sit with your new bride.”

These words seemed to be deliberately said, as the people around looked towards us and giggled after a while.

Wei Tan’s expression was calm as he complied and took me to sit on the seat near Wei Jue’s. 

When everyone was present and all ready, Guo Furen called for the dishes to be served. While the wine was served, Wei Jue allowed everyone to greet me. 

The first one was Wei Zhao. 

He got up from his seat and gave me a long bow while holding a cup with both his hand, “Greeting, **ZhangSao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of one's eldest brother"></sup>.”

I returned the greeting, “**Er Shu**.” After saying that, I raised my cup and took a slow sip of wine. 

<div class="author-note">
Er(second) Shu(uncle/brother in law)= second brother-in-law.
</div>

When entering the city and the doors just now, I had no time to look at Wei Zhao in detail. Currently, standing before me, without the helmet and armour, wearing a white brocade robe, he actually seemed quite handsome. There were some similarities between Wei Tan’s and his facial features but it was not quite the same. His complexion was much fairer than Wei Tan’s and his brows were much more delicate. His voice was neither rough nor weak, it was very clear and suitable for idle talk. All this, coupled with Wei Zhao’s faintly discernible smile, he seemed to emanate an air of elegance.

As I was thinking, I secretly swept my gaze across the hall and felt certain that among many people in the Wei family, only Wei Zhao was a beautiful man. 

Apart from Wei Tan and Wei Zhao, and the children that were beside Wei Jue that did not exceed five,  were all children of his brothers or the other members of the clan. 

Wei Xian who was the oldest whose face was full of beard, was over thirty years of age. Followed by Wei Ping and Wei Gang, both in their twenties and finally Wei Lang and Wei Ci whose age were similar to Wei Zhao. 

Wei Xian, Wei Ping and Wei Gang all had families and when they came to greet, a large group of people came over. Their wives and children were all in Yongdu and would often come to the Wei Residence on normal days. Thus I already know them. Today, it was just to get acquainted with their husbands. 

Wei Lang and Wei Ci have not married yet and they just called out, “Greeting, **ZhangSao**,” before flinging their heads back down to the cup of wine. Wei Ci was smiling heartily, he seemed to have a good relationship with Wei Tan as he gave him a teasing look. 

After the greeting event was over, the dishes were ready. Wei Jue gave others three toasts of wine and we started eating shortly after. 

There were not many rules in Wei Jue’s family banquet, thus it was very lively. Wei Jue asked after Wei An’s classes, Wei Rong’s needlecraft and also the current situation of the other children. They answered each question, at times even accompanied it with a laugh. Wei Jue then spoke about the expedition and praised Wei Tan, his other sons and nephews.

Guo Furen was listening at the side and when she heard about Wei Tan’s deeds, she was calm and there was no change in her expression but upon hearing Wei Jue praise Wei Zhao, she could not hide the joy and pride on her face even if those praises contained only two words “very good”.

Wei Rong and the rest of the children were naturally mischievous, so sometime into the banquet, the scene was a mayhem. Wei Jue, however, continued to drink and talk with the elders of the clan and did not care about it.

There were a number of people who came over to talk and toast Wei Tan and there were some females in the family clan that came over to me with enthusiasm. This meal was not lonely at all.

“**Da TangXiong** is very lucky.” Wei Ping’s wife, Zhou **Shi** said with a smile, “**TangSao** is able and virtuous and even beautiful, we have not wain in veins for so many years.”

<div class="author-note">
Tang means paternal side, hence Da TangXiong could be translated to Eldest-brother(cousin)-by-father-side.
TangSao is wife of a TangXiong.
</div>

“Yes it is. It’s rare for **Da TangXiong** to return, so stay for some day.” Wei Xian’s wife, Zhu **Shi** said, “**TangSao** is a new bride but had to be home alone, **TangXiong** must know to feel sorry towards people.”

“Who said that I did not know how to feel sorry to people?” Wei Tan held a wine cup in his hand and said profoundly, “Previously you all told **MuQin** about the arduous difficulty of pining (lovesickness), this time did I not bring Zhong Mao and Zi Da back?”

<div class="author-note">
Zhang Mao and Zi Da may be their husbands’ style name
</div>

The two women looked at each other while blushing with shame, smiled and walked away as they covered their faces with their sleeves.

People came to give toasts and to talk, one after another, and I drank a lot of wine as it did not take long before I started to feel dizzy.

“**ZhangSao**.” When Wei Rong came over with a bowl of wine, the smile on my face became ugly.

“Huh? **ZhangSao**’s face is red….” Wei Rong stared at my face and blinked. Before she finished speaking, the wine cup was snatched from her hand.

“Children are not allowed to drink alcohol.” Wei Tan said. 

Wei Rong started to glare. 

“I am not a child!” Wei Rong pouted, “Moreover **FuQin** said that we can drink alcohol today, MuQin also agreed!”

“Oh?” Wei Tan was unmoved. “If you recite the Lessons for Women<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Lesson for Women, a book for women's education in Traditional Chinese."></sup>, I will accept it.”

Wei Rong’s face changed, and just as she was about to speak, Wei Ci smiled and walked over to her and yelled, “Ah Rong! What’s the point of drinking, follow me to light up the fire performance instead.”

When Wei Rong heard those words, happiness immediately returned to her face. She soon followed Wei Ci out before making a face at Wei Tan.

Just now Wei An had also come over. However, he did not follow the noisy pair and remained rooted to his spot. 

“You are not going?” Wei Tan asked.

“Not going.” Wei An briefly replied.

Wei Tan looked at him and his lips curled into a soft arc. 

“Come here.” He said.

Wei An walked over the table.

Wei Tan reached out, grabbed onto his shoulders and gave them a pat. Wei An was somewhat shaken as he used his strength to stand firmly.

“Not bad.” Wei Tan nodded. “It is much sturdier than when I left. Have you pulled apart the bow that I gave you?”

“En.” Wei An nodded.

“I have quite a number of Dong Army’s crossbows and will give them to you tomorrow,” said Wei Tan.

Those words brightened Wei An’s eyes ever so slightly.

“En,” he said.

“An!” At this moment, Wei Ci’s voice suddenly came from the front of the hall. He smiled as he waved his hand towards this side, “Quickly come here! The fire performance is really interesting.”

Wei An looked at Wei Tan.

“Go on.” Wei Tan smiled gently.

Wei An nodded and turned around to heat out.

I looked at Wei An’s figure leaving as I felt that this youngest brother-in-law of mine was full of wonders. Upon turning back, I discovered that Wei Tan was looking at me. 

“Drunk?” He asked. 

I slightly ridiculed and shook my head, but after a moment nodded.

Wei Tan looked at me and after a while he said, “Don’t drink anymore. If they come to toast, then give it to me.”

After the family banquet had already ended, my footsteps had become unstable. My mind was only sober enough to bid everyone goodbye without breaking the courtesy. During my journey back to the courtyard, the lanterns in the servant’s hand seemed to be swaying, I was in a daze.

Grabbing my shoulder with one hand, Wei Tan’s voice was heard by my ear, “That’s the corridor pillar.”

Being in a daze, I took a closer look. Indeed, there was a dark pillar in front of me and I almost ran into it. 

“Dizzy?” Wei Tan asked.

I was already feeling so dizzy that I could not nod and could only reply ambiguously, “En…”

Wei Tan no longer spoke as he held my arms and led me onwards.

When I finally felt that I was lying on the couch, I almost let out a comfortable sigh due to the softness of the mattress.

“Bring over some hangout soup.” I heard Wei Tan instructing someone.

I squinted and saw a figure moving and swaying away above me as those wide shoulders blocked the candlelight. 

That shadow stayed there, seemingly far yet near, seemingly blurry yet clear.

Would he come over? And continue doing the things that were not done that night?

In this chaotic state, I actually thought about these questions. However, before I could think more about it, the shadow in front of me became thicker and heavier and I slowly closed my eyes.
