---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 106: Shuyu Spring (Part 1)"
order: 106
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---
<div class="author-note">
漱玉泉. The name Shuyu literally translates to "Rinsing Jade." This refers to the clear, splashing water that looks like white jade.
</div>

"Family letter?" I suppressed the spreading thoughts and looked at Deng Wu.

Deng Wu was about to speak, but Ma Kui cleared his throat.

"Furen," he glanced at Deng Wu, then smiled at me, saying, "We, brothers, are rough men. We only concern ourselves with setting fires and causing chaos. As for other miscellaneous matters, it's just hearsay for us, and it's not really our place to know the truth."

I smiled, "So it is."

When I held Ah Mi and stepped outside, it felt like something was urging my heart forward.

As I was about to get into the carriage, Li Shang called out to me from behind.

"Furen," he walked over, appearing contemplative, and said, "Regarding what Deng Wu mentioned earlier, it would be best not to dwell on it in your heart."

I was slightly surprised, and after a moment, I asked, "**Guanshi** also knows about this?"

"**Mou** also only heard them mention it these past few days," Li Shang looked at me. "Furen, regardless of the veracity of this matter, even if it is true, extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures. Since the Pei family has been rescued, Furen need not delve further into it."

I gave a faint smile and said, "**Guanshi**, you may go back." With that, I turned and got into the carriage.

On the way back to the residence, Ah Yuan held Ah Mi, while I leaned against the carriage wall, quietly gazing outside.

The slanting rays of the sun intermittently pierced through, sometimes obstructed by the eaves of houses or tall walls by the roadside. My vision alternated between moments of brightness and shadow.

I had been thinking too naively before.

Pei Qian had gained a significant reputation in Jiangdong, and since aligning himself with Wu Zhang, it had become his stronghold. If he truly intended to leave, back in Yecheng, he could have easily conspired with Wei Tan to use Wu Kun as leverage, ensuring his family's safe departure from Yangzhou. However, he chose not to. He would rather endure Wu Kun's suspicions and ostracism than abandon Jiangdong. In this context, how could a letter from Pei Kuan prompt him to take decisive action?

Wei Tan's move to uproot the source of trouble was indeed both precise and ruthless, severing the last shreds of trust between Wu Kun and Pei Qian. Pei Qian, not just thinking for himself, had to consider his family. Whether he chose to leave or not, departure was inevitable.

Does Pei Qian not come to Yongdu because he knows it's Wei Tan's scheme?

Wei Tan's actions lead to only two possible outcomes. First, Pei Qian successfully escapes, resulting in the current state of joy and relief. Second, if Pei Qian fails to escape, it would mean the tragic end of his entire family.

But regardless of the outcome, Jiangdong would have lost its most crucial strategist, resulting in a significant blow to its vitality.

"Furen, are you still thinking about what Deng Wu said earlier?" Ah Yuan suddenly asked.

I looked at her.

"Furen," Ah Yuan thought for a moment, then said, "Jiyuan **Gongzi** and **Da Gongzi** are close friends, **Da Gongzi** wouldn't harm him. Furen, think about it, if **Da Gongzi** wanted to get rid of Jiyuan **Gongzi**, he could have simply let Wu Kun handle it. Why would he go to such lengths to launch a rescue operation?"

"That's right," I quirked a corner of my lips.

Suddenly, I began to understand why Wei Tan always seemed to be invincible. His objectives were clear, and he didn't bother with the intricacies of whether a method was right or wrong. Such trifles didn't concern him. A person like him could use loyalty to win over warriors, use logic to sway scholars, and use warmth to bind friends and family. But when it came to making crucial decisions, he could also be ruthlessly decisive.

"...**Mou** shares a bond of old friendship with Jiyuan..." I gazed out of the window, and in my mind, I could faintly recall that day—the earnest and sincere expression on Wei Tan's face as he spoke to Pei Kuan.

Upon returning to the Wei residence, just as I was about to disembark from the carriage, the steward came to report that Wei Tan had sent someone to look for me earlier.

"What is the matter?" I inquired.

The steward explained, "**Er Gongzi** held a banquet today by the Shuyu Spring under the Bi Terrace, celebrating with the newly appointed *Xiaolian* from the court, enjoying the music and wine by the flowing waters. Family members were also present. Hence, **Da Gongzi** came to extend an invitation."
<div class="author-note">
孝廉 (xiàolián) - Local officials were required to recommend people known for good moral character to the imperial government. Those recommended individuals were called Xiaolian.
</div>

Wei Zhao is hosting a gathering of scholars? I pondered for a moment. It does seem to align with his character. Could it be that Wei Tan isn't particularly skilled in scholarly discourse, hence he's inviting me to lend a hand?

After a moment of consideration, I agreed. I took Ah Mi back to the room and handed her over to the wet nurse. Then, I changed into a different outfit and took a little time to freshen up before heading out in the carriage.

The Shuyu Spring under the Bi Terrace was just a short mile away, a renowned scenic spot in Yongdu. It featured pavilions, towers, hills, and rocks. I had, on occasion, accepted invitations from noble ladies like Yuying to come here and enjoy the water and flowers.

The leisurely enjoyment of music and wine by the flowing waters was something both my elder brothers used to appreciate. Pei Qian, in particular, was quite skilled in this area, and I was also quite familiar with it. However, those were days in Chang'an. Since marrying Wei Tan, this was the first time I had been a part of such a gathering.

The Shuyu Spring flowed down from the mountainside to a pavilion at the foot of the hill, its waters meandering leisurely. From a distance, I could already see the scholars seated on cushions along the water's edge, their figures hazy and distinct, their attire elegant and refined.

"Furen." When the attendant led me to where Wei Tan was, he was in conversation with two or three scholars. Upon seeing me approach, he greeted me with a smile.

"Fujun." I approached with a smile and gave a courteous greeting.

Wei Tan's attire was different from earlier in the morning. He wore a wide-sleeved robe, exuding an air of refinement. A long sword was strapped to his waist, adding a touch of vigor to his demeanor.

"**Shao Furen**." The people around, upon seeing me, also greeted me with gestures of respect.

After I returned the greeting, Wei Tan gently supported me with one hand and warmly introduced the people around us.

To my surprise, these people seemed entirely unfamiliar to me. Their names were ones I had never heard before. Furthermore, some of them, judging by their attire alone, were clearly not from noble backgrounds.

Glancing upstream, Wei Zhao was also engaged in lively conversation with a few individuals. They looked familiar, all of them being children of noble families.

Although I was puzzled, I maintained my smile and greeted each of the individuals that Wei Tan introduced me to, following his lead.

Before long, a chime sounded from the pavilion. An elder filled a lacquer cup with wine, placed it on a tray, and immersed it in the spring water. The lacquered tray was brightly colored, gently floating down the winding waterway. In no time, it came to a stop in front of a well-dressed scholar seated beside Wei Zhao.

The scholar had fair, almost porcelain-like skin, seemingly adorned with a touch of powder. He lifted the cup with a smile, pondered for a moment, and then composed a poem with "Yong Chi" as the title.
<div class="author-note">
雍 (yōng) - harmony <br>
池 (chí) - pool
</div>

I stood beside Wei Tan, listening. The poem lacked any spark of inspiration, its words and rhymes dull and unremarkable. In the old days in Chang'an, perhaps my elder brothers and their sharp-tongued friends would have heckled, demanding wine penalties for such lackluster verses.

Yet, after this man finished reciting, the surrounding individuals showered him with praise. I noticed a few scholars near Wei Tan exchanging knowing glances.

The lacquer cup continued its journey along the waterway, eventually drifting to a scholar dressed in plain clothes. It came to a halt in front of him.

I looked over, the man appeared to be in his thirties, his robe neither too new nor too worn, indicating a modest origin.

As soon as he took the lacquer cup, those in upstream showed signs of displeasure.

The scholar in plain clothes stood up. After a moment of contemplation, he composed a poem with "Clear Spring" (清泉 (qīngquán)) as the title.

As I listened attentively, I found his words to be flowing and melodious. Though there were moments of casual phrasing, every line was well-crafted and truly a commendable piece of work.

As soon as he finished reciting, those around erupted in a chorus of admiration.

"Pang **Xiong** truly possesses remarkable poetic talent!" someone exclaimed, clapping their hands. The scholar in plain clothes humbly expressed his thanks.

"How is it?" Wei Tan asked me in a low voice.

I looked at him, smiled, and nodded. Glancing upstream again, I saw those people chatting and laughing as if they hadn't heard anything.

At this time, Yuying and several ladies came over and invited me to enjoy the flower. I agreed, left Wei Tan, followed them towards the garden.

"After all, being away from Chang'an, even the leisurely gatherings by the flowing waters aren't as enjoyable as they used to be," remarked one noble lady in the garden as she plucked a rose. There were only two or three women in the garden.

"Of course, it's not as enjoyable as before," Yuying said. Then, she turned to me and asked, "Ah Jin, I heard that those scholars from commoner families were all invited by **Da Sima**. What is **Da Sima** up to? Many people are unhappy about this."

"It's the high-ranking families who are unhappy," a woman remarked. "I heard that those scholars from commoner backgrounds are quite remarkable. Take the one who just recited a poem for instance. During the Battle of Qiling, he gave a brilliant strategy and **Da Sima** appointed him as a record keeper in recognition of his great achievement."

"What difference does it make?" someone immediately scoffed. "No matter how high he climbs, he's still a commoner. Respectable families won't even let him through their doors."

While everyone was engrossed in conversation, Yuying whispered to me, "Ah Jin, didn't the Pei family move to Yongdu together? I heard that among those who were recognized for the *Xiaolian*, Jiyuan **Gongzi** has three Tang cousins who were also included."

"Oh?" I exclaimed in surprise.

Yuying sighed softly, "It's a pity Jiyuan **Gongzi** didn't come to Yongdu. If he had, today's gathering by the flowing waters would have been truly splendid."

While we were talking, someone suddenly exclaimed, "Isn't that **Taishi Furen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of the grand historian"></sup>?"

I raised my eyes, and in front of me, two women were strolling leisurely, admiring the flowers. The surprise in my heart felt like a rope, momentarily halting my steps. I recognized both of these women. One was Luo **Shi**, the wife of Pei Kuan. The other was none other than Liu Furen, Pei Qian's mother.

They also spotted me, and a similar astonishment flickered across Liu Furen's face.

"Why is she here?" Yuying's voice was soft, but her eyes were fixed on me.

The surrounding voices seemed to be muted, including Yuying's. Various curious gazes lingered on both me and Liu Furen.

I gazed at Liu Furen. It had been many years since we last met, and she had aged gracefully. There was a touch of seniority in her once youthful countenance, and silver threads adorned her temples.

I couldn't help but wryly smile. Was I thinking for Pei Qian in the first half of the day, only to face his mother in the latter half? The workings of fate were always so intriguing.

"Liu Furen." I steadied my heart and approached, offering a respectful greeting.

"Fu Furen." Liu Furen's voice was calm and still gentle, but it was vastly different from the way she used to call me "Ah Jin." There was an insurmountable distance in her tone.
