---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 108: Advice"
order: 108
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

Wu Kun’s retreat was, for Liang Wen, a golden opportunity of a thousand years.

Just as Pei Qian left Jiangdong, Liang immediately launched another attack on Jiangdong from Jingzhou. Wu Kun had already suffered successive defeats, and following the forced departure of Pei Qian, morale was shattered. Liang drove straight in, taking Yangzhou in less than a month. The dead-drunk Wu Kun was captured while still lying on his couch.

Now, from Jiangdong to Jingzhou, the territory has become Liang Wen’s alone, standing in direct confrontation with the Imperial Court.

Liang Wen is not like Wu Kun; he has many capable generals under his command and the resourceful Cui Ban by his side. Wei Tan cannot handle him as easily as he did with Wu Kun. Upon receiving the report, he immediately dispatched Yu Tong, who is skilled in naval warfare, as the vanguard to lead the main army to Xin'an.

However, after the large army set out, Wei Tan returned from the court, looking rather grim. He changed out of his court attire and, before long, headed towards the camp.

Sensing something amiss, I sought out Wang Hui, who had accompanied him to the court, for answers. Wang Hui seemed a bit hesitant, but eventually, he spoke up.

Today's early court session was to discuss two matters. Firstly, with Yongzhou now being the capital city<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="if you remember Yongdu was previously called Yongzhou. Du-capital; zhou-prefecture"></sup>; its affairs are now complex, and it has become beyond the capacity of the Yongzhou Government to manage. After Wei Tan assumed the position of **Da Sima**, he put all his effort into promoting the establishment of the Yongzhou-Jingzhao Government, to divide the administration of the inner and outer parts of the capital city with the Yongzhou Government. Secondly, last month, the Grand Minister of Agriculture (大司农-Da Sinong), Liu Liao, passed away. With the Emperor presiding over court, he is now listening to the recommendations of the courtiers for a suitable replacement.

The Magistrate of Pinghuai, Zhu Min, has served in the Grand Minister of Agriculture's office for many years, displaying exceptional proficiency in managing finances and grain transportation. He possesses strategic acumen fit for the highest echelons of command. Wei Tan favors him as the candidate for the position of Grand Minister of Agriculture. However, when Wei Tan proposed him in court, he faced strong opposition. The reason being, Zhu Min hails from a humble background, and courtiers believe that his promotion to one of the nine high ministers is premature given his relatively young experience. The majority of voices lean towards Liu Liao's son, Liu Yu, as their preferred candidate.

Following this, there was a subtle shift in the situation. When Wei Tan brought up the matter of establishing the Yongzhou-Jingzhao Prefecture, he faced strong opposition from the courtiers once again. They countered him with pointed arguments, leaving him somewhat cornered and finding it difficult to proceed.

Wang Hui said, "**Da Sima** is clearly displeased. The matter has not yet been settled, and as soon as the court disperses, he..." He paused halfway through his sentence, his gaze suddenly shifting.

I followed his gaze and glanced over, only to see Wei Zhao walking along the corridor not far away.

He too was dressed in court attire, and as he walked, his wide sleeves swayed gracefully, giving the impression of a leisurely stroll.

"**Zhangsao**," Wei Zhao greeted me with a bow as he approached.

"**Ershu**," I gestured for Wang Hui to step aside, returning his smile and inquiring, "**Ershu** just returned from the court?"

Wei Zhao spoke gently, "**Di** was engaged in a leisurely conversation with a friend, which caused me to return late." Afterward, he glanced behind me and continued, "**Di** recalls **Xiongzhang** leaving ahead. Has he not returned to the residence?"

"Fujun did return," I replied, "but after changing his attire, he went out again."

Wei Zhao smiled faintly. "So it is. **Xiongzhang** is a capable man, and thus, he naturally bears many responsibilities."

I looked at him and smiled in return.

<br>
Just as I was still pondering over the affairs of the court, in the afternoon, Wang Ju had come.

Upon hearing the report from the servants, I walked to the hall. When Wang Ju saw me, he bowed respectfully and greeted, "**Shao Furen**."

"Wang **Gong**," I returned the gesture, asking, "Has Wang **Gong** come to visit **Jiushi**?"

Wang Ju smiled and said, "No, **Mou** came solely to see Furen."

I was taken aback.

The scent of tea and smoke lingered in the hall. I instructed Ah Yuan to present a cup of tea to Wang Ju and ordered the rest to leave.

Wang Ju didn't waste any words either. Seeing that the surroundings were now quiet, he asked me, "One wonders if Furen has heard about the events of this morning's court session?"

It was indeed about this matter. I felt a slight tightening in my heart and nodded faintly. "Have heard a bit."

Wang Ju's expression turned solemn. "**Shao Furen**, **Mou** have come here to offer a piece of advice. **Da Gongzi** has always been thorough in his actions, but this time, he indeed acted too hastily."

I asked, "What does it mean?"

"Does Furen know who challenged matters in the court today?" 

I shook my head.

"Wen Zhen, Guo Cheng, Gao Ying. Furen must have heard their names."

I was inwardly surprised. Of course, I knew these individuals.

Wen Zhen and Gao Ying both hailed from noble families.

Wen Zhen and Wei Jue had been close friends since their youth. Shortly after Wei Jue's uprising, Wen Zhen joined his ranks, becoming one of the senior advisors. After Wei Jue successfully reinstated the Emperor, Wen Zhen was granted the title of marquis and held the position of Minister of the Imperial Secretariat in the court.

Gao Ying was also one of the senior advisors. Originally, he served as a strategist under He Kui. After He Kui's death, he was captured by Wei Jue. Upon the advice of a friend, Gao Ying decided to join Wei Jue. He proved to be a strategic thinker, contributing significantly to Wei Jue's campaigns of conquest. Presently, he holds the esteemed position of Chief Military Advisor of the Left under the Prime Minister.

As for Guo Cheng, his background is not particularly illustrious. However, he is the Biao cousin of Guo Furen. Since Wei Jue's rebellion, Guo Cheng has consistently served under his banner. While his strategic acumen may be ordinary, his loyalty is unwavering. Wei Jue has faced numerous perilous situations, and each time, Guo Cheng has sworn to protect him at the cost of his own life. This has earned Guo Cheng a deep trust from Wei Jue. Over the years, Guo Furen's position in the household has remained secure, and this has a significant connection with Guo Cheng. Previously, Guo Cheng had been stationed in Liaodong for quite some time. However, this year, after Wei Jue's recent resurgence, perhaps feeling that his own strength was waning, he summoned Guo Cheng, his old retainer, back and bestowed upon him the title of Deputy General of the Left.

Though their official ranks may not match that of Wei Tan, these three individuals hold significant influence both in the court and within the military. Most importantly, they all stand behind Wei Zhao.

Of course, in comparison, there are more people who support Wei Tan. Wang Ju, Deputy General Wen Zhang, Minister of the Masses Zhang Xian, Chief Military Advisor Zuo Wang, and many others are aligned with Wei Tan's faction.

"**Da Gongzi**'s determination to reform is admirable, and his aspirations are grand. However, if One aims for success, One must be wary of becoming too arrogant and impulsive," Wang Ju advised. "**Da Gongzi** has achieved remarkable feats and possesses both virtue and talent. Following the Battle of Qiling, his prestige within the military has reached unparalleled heights. After **Chengxiang** fell seriously ill, only **Da Gongzi** could command the respect of the troops, hence his appointment as the Da Sima. However, **Da Gongzi** is still of a tender age, and his foundation is not yet fully established. Moreover, both in the court and the military, the majority of those in positions of authority hail from noble families. **Da Gongzi**'s decision to appoint scholars based on merit, bypassing traditional norms, has caused discontent among many of the noble families. Now, with Wen Zhen and others seizing on this issue, One fears that sentiments may turn against him. **Da Gongzi** is in a precarious position."

I fell into silence.

Having been married to Wei Tan for quite some time, he always presented himself as a strong and capable figure in front of me. He seldom shared the intricacies of court politics. My heart raced, and even though I had gained some insights from Wang Ju, my inner apprehensions only seemed to grow stronger.

"In Wang **Gong**'s perspective, do you believe Fujun's primary strength lies within the military?" After a moment, I inquired.

Wang Ju nodded. "**Da Gongzi** excels in military affairs, and the Wei family's foundation also lies in formidable forces. However, to govern the realm, one needs more than just military prowess. Strategy and political acumen are equally crucial."

His words carried profound meaning, and I understood. I looked at Wang Ju and bowed deeply, saying, "Thank you, Wang **Gong**, for your guidance."

Wang Ju was taken aback for a moment, then quickly returned the gesture. "Furen is too modest."
