---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 109: Candlelight"
order: 109
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

That night, Wei Tan returned very late.

Ah Mi was already sound asleep, and I was still sitting in the room, using an oilcloth to wipe down Wei Tan's leather armor.

"Not resting yet?" he said in surprise, carrying with him a strong scent of sweat as he entered the room.

I smiled and asked him, "Fujun has eaten?"

Wei Tan nodded, glanced at the armor, and approached. "Why are you cleaning it?"

I replied, "**Qie** has nothing else to do, and noticed this armor has been sitting here for a while, so decided to give it a wipe."

Wei Tan smiled faintly and took a seat on the couch.

"What is this?" He noticed a piece of paper on the table, picked it up, and read aloud, "Residence in Wuliu Alley, three courtyards, two rooms in the central courtyard, five rooms in total. Residence in Zhuyexiang Alley, two courtyards, three rooms in the central courtyard, seven rooms in total..." He looked at me, a playful glint in his eyes. "Have Furen grown tired of the residence and wish to choose a new abode?"

I smiled and took the paper. "**Qie** did plan to select a residence, but not for myself."

"Oh?"

"Do you know Jia Yu?" I inquired.

"Jia Yu?" Wei Tan looked surprised. "The former Minister of Rites from the previous Emperor's reign?"

I nodded. "Exactly. Jia **Xiansheng** is Father's mentor. **Qie** recently heard that he intends to return from the frontier, and **Qie** wishes to bring him to Yongdu so he can enjoy his later years."

"Oh?" Wei Tan looked at me, his eyes brightening.

The name Jia Yu, not to mention Wei Tan, in the whole world, as long as One is not deaf, must have heard of this name. The Jia family of Chenliu was known for producing great scholars. Jia Yu's knowledge was extensive, and he was appointed as a Boshi (court academician) at a young age. In his middle years, he held the position of Grand Tutor (Taifu). During the reign of the previous Emperor, he personally revised the Confucian classics and inscribed them on tablets at the Imperial Academy. Scholars from all over the realm flocked to observe, resulting in a daily procession of thousands of carriages. In addition to this, Jia Yu's calligraphy and literary compositions were also exceptional. He created the "Jia Script," known for its bold strokes akin to a dragon. He penned over a dozen famous works such as "Clear Contemplation" 《清虑》 and "Yearning for Distant Places" 《怀远》, acknowledged as the leading figures in contemporary literary compositions, with no one surpassing him in later generations.

Jia Yu had only a handful of students, One could count them with fingers. Yet Father was one of them. Being counted among Jia Yu's students was a lifelong source of pride for him, and his knowledge was the area where political opponents were most hesitant to criticize him.

Despite his widespread renown, Jia Yu's life was not without its challenges. He had a somewhat prideful disposition and during his tenure as Minister of Rites, he clashed with Huang Can, the Commandant of the Guards, and Pan Rong, the Grand Herald. He also directly criticized the previous Emperor on multiple occasions. Huang Can and Pan Rong manipulated Jia Yu's poetry in front of the previous Emperor, alleging that he was subtly mocking him. This infuriated the Emperor. Shortly after, someone accused Jia Yu of illegally occupying public land. The Emperor ordered the Intendant of Jingzhao to investigate. Jia Yu, with his high moral standards, refuted the accusations in court. However, he chose to resign from his position shortly after the confrontation.

When the Fu Clan was accused and condemned, Jia Yu once came forward to plead for us with the previous Emperor, but he was ignored. Later, during He Kui's misrule, in order to maintain an appearance of stability, he asked Jia Yu to resume his position as Minister of Rites. Jia Yu declined the offer and instead fled beyond the frontiers to avoid He Kui. Now, after several years have passed, Jia Yu has heard that the Central Plains have regained stability, and he feels himself growing older by the day. Thus, he entertains the thought of returning to his hometown.

I heard this news from Li Shang. Due to Father, Li Shang is acquainted with Jia Yu and holds him in great respect. The ancestral land of the Jia family in Chenliu has long been in ruins. Li Shang thought of providing financial assistance to bring Jia Yu to Yongdu.

By the time I grew old enough to understand, Jia Yu was already no longer in Chang'an. The memories of Father's past associates always brought a tinge of melancholy, making me somewhat indifferent to socializing. Originally, I thought that even if Jia Yu came to Yongdu, I would quietly pay him a visit and be done with it. However, after meeting Wang Ju today, the situation has taken an extraordinary turn.

"What are Fujun thoughts on this?" I looked at Wei Tan, asking.

Wei Tan gazed back at me, his expression unreadable.

"I heard that Wang Ju visited today?"

I had no intention of hiding it from him, nor could I. I nodded, "Indeed."

"The affairs of the court, Furen need not be concerned about it." Wei Tan placed the paper back on the table.

"**Qie** has no intention of meddling in court affairs," I took the paper back, saying, "Jia **Xiansheng** was Father's mentor, and now he has nowhere to go in his hometown. Even if it means using my dowry, One is determined to take care of him."

"Dowry?" Wei Tan raised an eyebrow, his gaze playful. "Oh, Furen still has her dowry."

Ignoring him, I continued, tucking away the paper, "Tomorrow, **Qie** will go sell all the jewelry from my dowry, secure a residence, and hire some merchants familiar with the frontier for the journey (to escort him back)."

Before I could leave, Wei Tan reached out and gently took my hand.

He sighed and said slowly, "There's no need for Furen to go through all this trouble. Tomorrow, I'll have someone take care of it."

A sudden clarity washed over me. I turned to Wei Tan, who looked at me with a hint of helplessness, his lips curved in a gentle smile. "Jia **Xiansheng** is a distinguished scholar of our times. The court yearns for such talents, and it would be audacious of me to trouble Furen with this matter."

Of course, there was also a personal motive behind bringing Jia Yu back. The journey from the frontier to Yongdu spanned thousands of miles, and in these times, the safety of the roads was uncertain. Even if I were to rely on seasoned merchants for the journey, entrusting them to bring someone back would cost at least 20,000. While Li Shang often wrote to inform me that my profits were accumulating nicely, it was common practice in business to invest 10,000 to make 50,000. Saving on expenses wouldn't hurt.

With a sense of accomplishment, I wrote a letter to Li Shang, generously informing him that Wei Tan had taken charge of the matter concerning Jia Yu.

Li Shang's reply pleased me greatly. Under the name of Yannian Hall, Cai Rang went to conduct business with the Imperial Medical Bureau. If it proved successful, it would be a significant deal worth 44,000. In his letter, Li Shang also mentioned Liang Wen in the south. His concern wasn't so much about national affairs, but rather, he initially wanted to have Ma Kui inquire about the sea routes to bring back some medicinal herbs from places like Jingzhou in the south. However, since spring, there has been a severe drought in the south, and some waterways have become impassable for ships.

Upon hearing this news, I was somewhat surprised. Having visited the south once, I had some understanding of the situation in Jingzhou and Jiangdong. While Liang Wen and Wu Kun, united, may pose a threat to Yongzhou due to the geographical advantage of the southern region, in terms of numbers and resources, they were simply no match for Yongzhou.

Moreover, with such a severe drought, the harvest of crops must be insufficient. This is undoubtedly a pressing issue, even for Liang Wen, who has just gained control of Jiangdong. With Wei Jue recently falling ill and Wei Tan assuming greater power, could Liang Wen take advantage of this opportunity to launch a decisive attack northward?

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

With Wei Tan being occupied all day, when he returned, he glanced at Ah Mi. I urged him to go and wash off the sweat and grime from his body.

As he entered wearing a thin shirt, I was in front of the mirror, combing my hair. Wei Tan stood behind me for a moment, then leaned down and lifted me up into his arms.

"Ah Mi is asleep..." His kisses were tender, and I gently pushed him away.

"En?" Wei Tan set me down on the bed and looked up. "To the outer room?"

My face flushed, and I pinched him in annoyance.

Wei Tan chuckled softly, holding me tightly. He buried his face in my neck, taking in a deep breath, but made no further move. The flickering light of the candle danced faintly beside the bed. I gazed at it, gently running my fingers through his hair, from his temple to the nape of his neck.

"Where did you go today? To the camp?" After a moment, feeling a bit warm, I moved away from him and engaged in conversation.

"En," Wei Tan's arm bent, serving as his pillow, "In a couple of days, I have to go to Xin'an."

"Xin'an?" I was surprised, and couldn't help but sit up.

"What's surprising?" Wei Tan smiled and pulled me closer. "Lie down."

I rested my head on his shoulder and thought for a moment before saying, "But **Jiushi**'s health has been deteriorating lately. Is it urgent for you to go to Xin'an?"

"En," Wei Tan's voice was somewhat solemn. "Liang Wen has established a water fort in Xin'an. It's likely he has some intentions." He paused and added, "On **Fuqin**'s side, Furen please take good care of things in the mansion."

I nodded in response, not saying anything.

Taking care or not was actually a redundant statement. The current state of Wei Jue was extremely feeble. He only managed to stay awake for about two or three hours each day. With the help of the servants, he would sit up for a short while, but before long, he would need to lie down again. Guo Furen would attend to him only when he was awake. As for Ren **Ji**, heavily pregnant, she stayed in Wei Jue's room all day, never venturing elsewhere.

Ah Mi was inseparable from me, and Wei Jue's room was filled with sickness. I couldn't linger there for long with her. I could only take her in to see Wei Jue when he was awake each day.
　　
I was somewhat concerned. Given Wei Jue's current condition, the fact that Wei Tan was going south left a lingering unease in my heart.

"Why aren't you speaking?" Wei Tan noticed my silence and asked.

"What is there to say?" I replied.

"Furen is reluctant to see **Weifu**..." Wei Tan leaned closer, nibbling on my ear, and murmured softly.

Here it comes again. His breath is so warm that I feel like breaking into a sweat just from its proximity. However, I find myself less and less resistant to his intimacy. His kisses, touches, breaths, heartbeats—they all feel like they carry an indescribable enchantment. When we entwine together, it's easy to forget the many troubles of this world.

However, I still have reservations.

"Ah Mi is still asleep……" I helplessly break free from his deep kiss, reminding him.

"En?" Wei Tan lifts his head, his dark eyes flickering towards where Ah Mi sleeps, a faint smile playing on his lips. "Then let's go to the bathhouse..." His voice is husky as he lifts me up and heads towards the door.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Wei Tan's trip to Xin'an is an inspection. Armour and swords are necessary to bring along. The southern weather is hot and humid, so it's important to have extra undershirts. Also, some commonly used medicines for dispelling evil and enhancing vitality should be prepared.

The next day, feeling weary, I fed Ah Mi and then sat on the bed, gathering the things that needed to be taken along.

"If Furen is tired, you should go rest." Ah Yuan noticed my expression and suppressed a smile.

I glanced at her, choosing to ignore the comment.

Wei Tan that rogue. Last night, Ah Yuan and several other servants were still in the courtyard.

They thought something had happened and approached to ask, but Wei Tan paid no attention. He went straight into the bathroom and closed the door. There was warm water ready, Wei Tan poured it into the tub, and then…

My face is burning. I have thin skin, so I tried my best not to make a sound. But Wei Tan's skin is as thick as a city wall. He even reassured me, saying, "Don't worry, they wouldn't dare listen…" When we came out, sure enough, there was no one in the courtyard. But the next day, when I got up, I felt that everyone's eyes were filled with ambiguity.

But I still find it endlessly memorable. After it was over, I leaned against him, thinking that he would be leaving again soon, and I felt very melancholic.

When Wei Tan left Yongdu, the scene was not grand. He took with him the newly trained naval forces, the elite strategists, and also took Wei An with him. In front of the city tower, the departing troops were lined up in perfect order, resembling a chessboard.

"**Xiongzhang**, have a safe journey." Wei Zhao raised his cup by the roadside, offering his well-wishes to Wei Tan.

Wei Tan accepted it and said, "One entrusted **Fuqin** and the family to Zhongming."

Wei Zhao smiled, "**Xiongzhang**, rest assured."

Wei Tan raised his head and drank the wine in one gulp.

I held Ah Mi by my side, perhaps because Wei Tan's armor was shining brightly, Ah Mi kept staring at him. Over these days, she had become quite familiar with Wei Tan. When she saw him looking over, she grabbed onto my clothes with one small hand, but extended the other towards Wei Tan, as if she wanted him to hold her.

"Don't fuss," I whispered, holding her a little tighter.

Wei Tan looked over, a hint of gentleness appearing on his serious face.

I looked at him, a small smile forming on my lips.

"Farewell." Wei Tan withdrew his gaze, nodded to Wei Zhao and the others. With that, he took the helmet from an attendant, put it on, and strode towards his carriage.

The commanding officer of the imperial army shouted orders to organize the troops. The sound of hooves echoed, and flags fluttered in the wind.

Ah Mi looked around curiously, completely unperturbed by the noise. I remained silent, watching that figure disappear with the surging tide of the troops, obscured by banners, spears, and dust.

"Wouldn't it be better for Fujun to not go to Xin'an?" That night, I leaned against Wei Tan, whispering softly, "Perhaps take **Qie** and Ah Mi along."

"En?" Wei Tan leaned against the edge of the tub, his voice tinged with a lazy smile. "What's so good about Xin'an? If I were to take you both, shouldn't we go somewhere else?"

I perked up and looked up, "Oh? Where does Fujun want to take us?"

"Where does Furen wish to go?" Wei Tan replied, asking in return.

I thought for a moment, then rested my head against his chest again, sighing, "Anywhere is better than Yongdu. Have Fujun ever been to the seaside?"

"The seaside?" Wei Tan's voice was low, he stroked my hair gently, and said slowly, "Prepare a carriage. You, me, and Ah Mi. We'll go to the seaside, take a boat out to sea, find an immortal mountain, and then have a bunch of children… en?"

I smiled, listening to his words. I could feel the misty water vapor transforming into carriages, horses, a group of little people, mountains, and the sea in the candlelight... It all seemed distant and surreal.

"Liar," I chided.

"Why would I lie to you?" Wei Tan chuckled. "It's true." He kissed my forehead. "When the time comes and  we're done with all of this before, we'll make it happen…"

"Ah en..." Ah Mi clung to my shoulder, one finger in her mouth.

I lowered my head, sighed softly in my heart, and gently rubbed her cheek.
