---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 11: Medicinal Ointment"
order: 11
---

After spending a night with muddled headiness, I woke up the next day being alone in the room.

With a neat middle-wear on the body, I lay on the couch and thought for a while, until I recalled yesterday’s matter. Looking around, the quilt was covering my body, and the other half of the couch next to me was flat and neat, without any trace of anyone having laid on it. 

Just as one was staring blankly, there was a soft knock from the door as Ah Yuan entered.

“Where is **Da GongZi**?” I asked. 

Ah Yuan looked at me and giggled aloud. 

“**Da GongZi** followed **ChengXiang** out early in the morning.” Facing me, Ah Yuan blinked her eyes ambiguously. “Furen, you are searching for **Da GongZi** as soon as you woke up? Furen was drunk last night, **Da GongZi** said that he was afraid of disturbing Furen, so he slept in the side chamber.”

I was surprised and took a while to straighten things out.

“**Da GongZi** slept in the side chamber?”

“Yes.” Ah Yuan pursed her lips up and smiled, “Furen, **Da GongZi** treats you very well.”

I did not say a word, sat on the couch to think for a moment before asking, “Did **GuShi** send someone over?”

“Someone came over.” Ah Yuan said, “But upon seeing that Furen has not woken up yet, they returned and did not come over again.” I nodded and got up to dress.

After tidying up, I headed over to Guo Furen. After the greetings, she looked at me with the usual expression. “**Shao Furen** has gotten up. Have you had your breakfast?”

I nodded, “It has been taken.”

Guo Furen smiled, “One heard that **Shao Furen** was drunk last night? Is everything alright?”

I hurriedly said, “One had drank hangover soup last night. No harm was done.”

Guo Furen nodded. 

“**Shao Furen**.” She paused her words and said slowly, “**Da GongZi** follows **ChengXiang**’s expeditions, and it is not easy for them to return. As a woman, one has to be more sympathetic, rising early to make arrangements, taking care of everything, allowing your master to have a piece of mind.”

These words were spoken rather amiably by her, but I understood the underlying meaning. She was saying that I had let Wei Tan sleep in the side chamber last night and should not have slept until so late this morning, causing delays in looking after one’s husband. 

My brows moved slightly as my heart was annoyed a little, but without defending, I politely said to Guo Furen, “**GuShi**’s teaching, **Er Fu** will keep it in mind.”

Guo Furen seemed quite satisfied with my attitude and revealed a smile.

After exchanging conventional greetings for a while, Wei Xian’s and the few nephews’ wives brought their children over to visit Guo Furen, the room became rather lively. 

Among Wei Jue’s sons, only Wei Tan had married a wife, while Wei Zhao had a concubine who was not in Yongdu. Thus, other than me, who would come over to accompany Guo Furen, it was only these wives of the nephews. 

Guo Furen was very pleased to see them arrive and instructed the servants to bring fruits and sweet snacks for everyone.

Wei Ping’s wife, Zhou **Shi** said, “I was passing through the market today and saw that the Lu Residence, at the city’s north, is adorned with coloured ornament. One heard that Lu **Gong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Lord Lu"></sup>’s birthday is in two days and has invited hundreds of officials for a banquet.”

Guo Furen said, “It is exactly so. Lu **Gong**’s steward came here in the morning to invite the whole residence (the whole family). **ChengXiang** is busy with state matters, there are also a number of invites from other families, so we probably won't be able to attend.”

Upon hearing that, Zhou **Shi(* said, “That is true. It is after all a merchant’s family and it would not be appropriate for **ChengXiang** to attend.”

When Wei Xian’s wife, Zhu **Shi**, who was feeding her child rice cakes, heard this, she smiled and said, “it is said that this Lu **Gong** is not an ordinary person. He is a well-known, wealthy household in Huaizhong and had once donated huge sums of money for the renovation of His Majesty’s temporary palace. Last month, Huaizhong was invaded by pirates and thus he moved his family to Yongdu.”

Guo Furen smiled, "Lu **Gong** is different from ordinary merchants. The court currently lacks money and has to rely on something. Do you all still remember the silk muslin that was distributed a few days ago? Those were sent over by Lu **Gong**.”

On the topic of silk muslin, the women all became excited, as they chatted about how exquisite the muslin was. Everyone joined in on the conversation. They then went on to discuss what kind of clothes would be best suited for silk muslin.

I sat by the side and listened with a smile and would contribute a sentence or two every now and then, but my heart was thinking of something else. 

The world was in chaos, and Yongzhou could be considered a safe place, with the Emperor and hundreds of officials residing here. Thus, everyday, there were many wealthy families from all parts of the country moving into the city. Wei Jue was the Prime Minister, and he also controlled half of the Central Plains, including Yongzhou. The wealthy families were flourishing but sought safety and stability, Lu **Gong** donated money and held banquets solely to be acquainted with the rich and powerful in Yongzhou. People with this way of thinking, it was not only him but many.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Upon returning to the courtyard, Ah Yuan closed the door and frowned as she said to me, "Furen, how could Guo Furen speak to you like that? You pay respect in both morning and evening daily, don't procrastinate in handling matters of the household, and treat people and matters amicably. It's only waking a little later after getting drunk last night and Guo Furen made things difficult with her words.”

I sat on the couch in front of the desk and stretched my stiff body, "What making things difficult? It's only natural for her to do that."

"How is it natural?" Ah Yuan was puzzled.

I looked at her and said, “I have entered the doors of the Wei Family and the first elder I met was Guo Furen. Guo Furen thus holds the role of an educator. If my behaviour is wrong and it falls into another’s eyes, others would say that Guo Furen did not educate me well.”

Ah Yuan still had doubts, "But she had never said anything to you before."

I continued, “The past is the past. Presently, **ChengXiang** and **Da GongZi** have returned.”

Ah Yuan thought for a while before a look of realisation bloomed on her face.

“Guo Furen is indeed a matriarch. To be this careful…" She muttered.

I smiled. Of course Guo Furen needed to be careful, she came from a humble family, and one even heard that she had even entered the Chang Family in the past. With Wei Jue such a formidable person, she went from a *Qieshi*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit: maid and concubine"></sup> to a *Jieshi*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="second wife (of a widower)"></sup>, each step relied on being careful.

"It is good to know. In the future, you also have to be cautious in everything you do, do not make others displeased." I warned.

Ah Yuan complied.

"Ouh, right, Furen." As she was just about to open the door to leave, she turned back and took out a piece of paper from her sleeves and gave it to me. "This is what I saw in the kitchen this morning."

I took and unfolded it. and was greeted by words written by Li Shang with somewhat dense handwriting. After I had reached an agreement with him on the business, he had immediately tasked Ah Huan to visit families who reared animals and asked about trade's matter. He said that he had taken a fancy to a few families and had also inquired about the meat prices in the city, intending to try it out with a deal.

I thought about Lu **Gong**. People like him who were eager to make friends, would definitely host a lot of banquets. One’s heart could not help but feel a little excited and immediately fetched a brush to write a reply, allowing Li Shang to do as he liked and not to have any misgivings.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

When Wei Tan returned, it was already night.

Wei An followed him while holding something that looked like a crossbow in his hand.

“The armoury has recently developed a scaling ladder and will be demonstrating it before the army tomorrow. Are you going?” I only heard Wei Tan asking.

“Going.” Wei An nodded his head.

Wei Tan patted his shoulders, “Since you are rising early tomorrow, it is better to rest early today.”

“En.” Wei An hugged the crossbow and turned around to leave when he suddenly saw me.

"**ZhangSao**." He stopped his step and took the initiative to bow.

I smiled and greeted back, "**SiShu**."

Wei An stopped talking and walked quickly towards his courtyard.

I looked at Wei Tan as he stood under the corridor with the lantern reflecting his tall stature.

"Fujun has returned." I said.

"En. Has returned." He looked at me and his facial features seemed to soften under the candlelight.

 

 

Wei Tan had already eaten in the camp, so he went straight to take a bath when he returned.

I had bathed and the hair was still wet. As nothing was happening in the room, I instructed Ah Yuan to move the lamp to the front of the mirror, sat before it and untied my hair as I started to wipe it with a dry towel.

Within the sheep-shaped pottery lamp, the lamp wick produced silently burning flames and the half-lidded sheep eyes glowed.

My mind was a little disarray, the night wind was neither warm nor cold, and I seemed to be able to smell the faint scent of water vapour.  After Wei Tan had finished bathing, he would return to this room. After that, what will he do next? The answer was known without saying. It was only logical that the husband and wife would sleep together and he should be completing what he had not finished during the wedding night, right?

The towel slid across my hair numbly.

Afraid? Of course I was not afraid.

I was married at the age of fifteen. Even after many years had passed, I was still utterly uneducated in the matters of the bed.

This could not be blamed on me. Han Guang did not know about the matters of the world and would at most hug me to sleep at night. Hence, after all these years, I had not given birth. The parents-in-law of the Han Damily were not happy as they all thought that I was incapable while I was unable to explain it.

In the end, Han Tian did not hesitate to send me away and one of the reasons was the lack of children. This had also alerted me that in order for me to gain a foothold in the Wei Family, what I should seize onto.

It was like the person in the bronze mirror was covered with a layer of honey-gold tulle. Her head was slightly tilted to reveal an egg-shaped face. Her complexion was fair, lips rosy and there was a soft lustrous feel to her cascading dense black hair.

I used the small towel to rub my wet hair slowly and the person in the mirror looked at me. At this moment, her eyes blinked and lips narrowed slightly as the pair of black eyes turned innocent, it seemed as if there was some kind of sheen in them.

This expression was my signature move.

I was restless from an early age and had gotten into a number of troubles and suffered from a lot of reprimands. Over time, I learned how to look miserable and plead softly ‘It’s all my fault. Don’t be angry all right?’. This was indeed very useful. No matter if it was Father, Mother or anyone else, nine out of ten times, one’s anger would disappear and would not bear to blame me.

Pei Qian did not know whether to laugh or cry and said that I was being the most shameless like this.

I cannot deny that at that time, what I liked most was to see Pei Qian’s expression of being annoyed and amused at the same time. It was because the dignified and refined Pei Qian was someone else while the Pei Qian that grinned and rolled eyes belonged to me…

I closed my eyes for a moment before opening them. The person in the mirror looked at me. The former moth-shaped brows had already been trimmed to willow brows, inexplicable expressions suffused those eyes.

I stared at her and sighed softly.

"What's the sighing for?" A voice suddenly sounded from before. 

I was startled and turned my head.

I did not know when Wei Tan had entered. He wore a single layer of clothes and the heat of the bath left a warm glow on his neck and face.

“Surprised?” Upon seeing my response, he seemed quite proud as he raised his eyebrows and picked up a towel from the hanger to wipe his temples.

“It is nothing.” I shot a glance at him and quickly turned around. After a moment, I felt that it was unnatural and said, “Fujun has bathed?”

"En." Wei Tan answered.

There were rustling sounds behind me, I took a peek at the mirror, and saw him sit on the bed. The weather was hot, thus the ends of his pants were rolled up, exposing his taut and strong calves.

I thought about it as I tied my hair simply before leaving the mirror.

“Fujun brought **SiShu** to the barracks?” I poured a cup of water and handed it to Wei Tan.

“En. He loves to look at machinery.” Wei Tan took the cup and after a moment he spoke, “He said that you went over to take a look at his workshop and also gave him new clothes?"

I nodded and asked, “Does **SiShu** like it?”

“He is already wearing it.” Wei Tan smiled, there was some regret in his expression. “It is shameful to speak about it. He and I are born from the same mother and I, as an older brother, should take better care. However, I am often away and have neglected him.”

I smiled softly, “I am in the house and will look after him more often.”

Wei Tan looked at me and something seemed to have flashed in his black eyes. He lowered his head to take a sip of water and his brows suddenly moved, “What is in the water?”

“Peach blossoms.” I said, “Two months ago, I went to the Bai He Temple  of the Western Mountains and saw some falling petals and thus collected them.” As I spoke, I picked up the porcelain pot to refill Wei Tan’s cup and accidentally saw a bruise on his calf.

“Is Fujun hurt?” I asked.

“En?” Wei Tan followed my gaze over to his leg and said, “Was not careful when getting off the horse. It is nothing.”

I nodded my head and thought for a while before walking to the door.

Ah Yuan was in the corridor. “Is there any medication for bruises?” I asked.

“Medication?” Ah Yuan was startled before quickly asking, “There is. What does Furen want it for?”

“Don’t ask. Bring some over.”

Ah Yuan nodded her head and walked away. Not long after, she came back with a small bottle and handed it to me, “It is given by **ZhangShi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="steward (of the Wei Residence)"></sup>, he said that it is the best medical ointment in the residence.”

I took it and walked back to the room.

“Medicinal ointment?” Wei Tan frowned as he saw the bottle in my hands.

“Fujun has an injury, it is necessary to disperse the bruise.” I spoke as I sat by the bed.

Wei Tan looked at me and said after a long time, “One has troubled Furen.” He then stuck his leg out after speaking.

I did not speak much and poured the medical ointment onto one of my hands and covered it with the other to warm it up. Soon, the rich medicinal scent spread. It was indeed a rare item.

I applied it onto his bruise and after a while, slowly rubbed it. This injury was not serious and in fact did not require medication as it would heal in a couple of days. However, this was a good opportunity to show a wife’s tenderness and I did not want to miss it.

The room was very quiet with only the sound of my hands bristling. Honestly speaking, men’s legs are not good looking at all. The hair on it is denser than that of females- black and rough. The muscles are also solid and sturdy, making the legs firm… Well, it looked very strong, after all Wei Tan was a warrior.

I knew that Wei Tan had been looking at me and his gaze could not be ignored by anyone. I also knew how I looked at this point of time. My complexion was fair and delicate, lips rosy and my hair fell behind my back. The clothes on my body were soft and the neckline was a bit loose, slightly revealing the skin below my neck.

My wet nurse had often told me about matters of the boudoir after I had turned twelve. She had once told me that after a female bathed, one’s clothes were not tidy… hair hung down. If this were during normal times, it would be inelegant but in the bedroom, men would often be fascinated…

“Furen is very familiar with it.” Wei Tan suddenly spoke in a low voice.

I smiled lightly. “**XianFu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="term to address one's late father"></sup> used to wrestle and would often return with bruises after comparing notes with friends. **MuQin** would often apply medical ointment on **FuQin** and I would often be at the side, thus I learnt some things.”

Wei Tan did not speak and I continued rubbing. However, not long after, my chin was suddenly lifted by a hand.

Everything became silent at this moment.

I looked at Wei Tan’s eyes, they did not have their usual sharpness but were still as dark as ink. His two fingers supported my chin with only a little strength but I could feel the warmth from the fingertips.

“Your Mother has taught a lot.” He said slowly.

I looked at him and wanted to say something but discovered that I could not speak for a while and could only curve the corners of my lips. Sensing the approaching masculine aura, my heart started to thump loudly.

However, the next moment, his fingers released my chin.

“No need to rub. It is not early anymore, Furen should rest.” Wei Tan removed my hands from his calf before standing up and walking off the bed.

I was startled and watched blankly as he headed to the hanger and took the cloak from it to put it on.

“Fujun is going out?” I asked.

“En.” Wei Tan fastened his belt and hooked his sword onto it. “I am going to the barracks tonight and will not be returning.” After speaking, he stepped out the doors.

As the figure disappeared outside the doors, the night breeze blew in, swaying the lights and shadows.

“Furen, **Da GongZi**…” Ah Yuan walked in, surprise evident on her face.

I sat by the bed and looked at the empty threshold silently.

I could foretell that I would not sleep well tonight…
