---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 113: Bad News (Part 2)"
order: 113
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

The news of Wei Tan's defeat in Xin'an was swiftly reported to the capital a few days ago. It caused a stir in the court, though it was not openly publicized. Now, with Lü Zheng returning from Xin'an with over five thousand remaining troops, the news spread rapidly. Wei Zhao hurried back from the court shortly after. Before long, the steward came to invite me to the hall, informing me that Guo Furen had something important to discuss.

I agreed and asked Ah Yuan to fetch a plain set of clothes for me to change into.

"Furen," she looked at me with concern, "Furen please do not grieve too much. Your health is of utmost importance."

I understood she was referring to me fainting in the hall two days ago. I patted her hand and walked out of the room.

Many people were seated in the hall, and the atmosphere was heavy. At a glance, I could see Wei Zhao, the relatives of the Wei family, as well as Wen Zhen and Gao Ying. When I arrived, many pairs of eyes turned towards me simultaneously.

"**Shao Furen** has arrived." Guo Furen had a headband wrapped around her head, wore plain robes without any makeup. She looked somewhat weary, but her spirit was still present. Leaning against a table, she waved to me with a kind expression. "Come, sit here."

I followed her instructions, bowing to her, then offering greetings to Wei Zhao and several other elders in the family. I took a seat to the right of Guo Furen, towards the lower end.

Wei Zhao, too, was dressed plainly. He appeared weary, with sunken eyes and a deeper intensity in his gaze.

Guo Furen looked at me, sighed, and her expression filled with sorrow. "It's a pity that a virtuous and courteous woman here, who was also young, suffered such tragic news…" She said, and then discreetly wiped away her tears with her sleeve.

Zhang **Shi** beside us hurriedly offered words of comfort. 

I lowered my head and said, "**Gushi**, *please restrain one's grief*."
<div class="author-note">
节哀 (jié'āi) - restrain one's grief [when offering condolences]
</div>

Guo Furen sighed, pulled my hand over, and stroked it. She then turned toward everyone in the hall, her expression earnest and sincere: "Esteemed ministers, uncles, and elders of the Wei Clan, today **Qie** has invited you to our residence to discuss an important matter. One is sure you have already heard about the situation with **Da Gongzi** and **Si Gongzi**. Ever since **Zhugong** has fallen ill, our house has repeatedly encountered misfortunes; we are now in an extraordinary time. The Son of Heaven has appointed Zhongming as the **Chengxiang Sizhi**, and we must also discuss the funeral arrangements for the manor."
<div class="author-note">
丞相司直 (Chéngxiàng Sīzhí): Rectifier of the Prime Minister Office. This was a high-level supervisory role responsible for investigating and correcting the conduct of officials under the Prime Minister. 
</div>

I listened to these words and understood in my heart.

Lü Zheng led the remaining five thousand troops back to Yongdu, leaving the court and the people in a state of panic. Before departing for Xin'an, Wei Tan had stationed around five hundred thousand troops in over ten counties and commanderies spanning Xin'an and Runan. Now, faced with this sudden turn of events and a formidable enemy, the most pressing matter for the court is to appoint a new commander to stabilize military morale. The military forces of the court were nurtured by the Wei family, and with Wei Tan and the others presumed dead, only Wei Zhao remains to carry on the Wei legacy.

After breaching the water fortress, Liang Wen advanced northward, encountering no significant resistance. On the same day news of Wei Tan's death reached the capital, the Emperor issued a decree appointing Wei Zhao as **Chengxiang Sizhi**, commanding all three military forces. Upon receiving this mandate, Wei Zhao promptly ordered the assembly of remaining soldiers and initiated conscription efforts to confront Liang Wen.

In this dynasty, the position of **Chengxiang Shizi** was not regularly established. Throughout history, there have only been four individuals who held this position, all of them stepping in for the Prime Minister during times of crisis. Wei Zhao taking up this role signifies the gravity of the situation at hand.

These actions were carried out swiftly. In just two days, both the court and the Wei residence experienced a transformation akin to the swift shift from summer to autumn, as the climate subtly changed after a sudden rain.

Currently, Guo Furen's mention of the funeral arrangements signifies the formal announcement to the extended family that Wei Tan and Wei An have passed away, and now Wei Zhao is the legitimate heir.

My chest feels like it's being blocked by something.

The court's decision to let Wei Zhao take power is reasonable for the sake of stabilizing the situation. However, since Lü Zheng hasn't actually seen Wei Tan and the others being killed, and there are no bodies, how can they hold a funeral? What infuriates me even more is that, in the face of such a dire situation, Guo Furen's main concern seems to be about securing an heir. Even if Wei Tan has passed away and Wei Zhao assumes power, what difference does it make whether or not an heir is designated? Such behavior is truly disheartening.

The people in the hall remained silent.

Guo Furen looked at me and asked, "One wonders what **Shao Furen** thinks?"

I lowered my head, raised my sleeve to wipe my cheeks, and with furrowed brows, I spoke softly, "**Erfu** defers to **Gushi** and all the esteemed elders' wishes. It's heartbreaking that Fujun dedicated his entire life to warfare, yet now his remains are nowhere to be found..." I couldn't continue, tears welled up.

The hall was filled with a flurry of discussions.

Guo Furen remained silent.

Someone spoke up, "With a formidable enemy at our gates, holding a funeral now might unsettle the people and work against our interests."

Guo Furen let out a heavy sigh, her voice on the verge of tears. "My son gave his life for the country, but we are unable to even hold a proper funeral for him?"

"Furen, please accept our condolences. Gentlemen, please accept our condolences," a voice spoke up. I glanced over and saw it was Wen Zhen. He bowed to Guo Furen and said, "In One humble opinion, though these are exceptional circumstances, we should not forsake proper rites. A mourning hall can be set up in the residence, but we may simplify the funeral proceedings. Once we have reclaimed Xin'an, we can then retrieve **Gongzi**'s remains for a proper burial."

With this statement, no one else raised any objections.

Guo Furen nodded and said, "Wen **Gong**'s words are quite right." After that, she immediately instructed the steward to prepare everything needed to set up the mourning hall in the residence.

The relatives responded one after another, and after giving a few more instructions, Guo Furen dismissed everyone.

I didn't want to stay a moment longer. Maintaining an overwhelmed expression of grief, I bid my farewells and was supported by Ah Yuan as I left.

Just as I reached the back of the hall, I heard Wei Zhao's voice coming from behind: "**Zhangsao**, please wait."

I stopped and saluted, "**Ershu**."

Wei Zhao said, "The departed can never return. **Zhangsao**, take care (of your health)."

"Thank you, **Ershu**," I murmured.

Wei Zhao said, "If there's anything **Zhangsao** need, just say the word."

His words carried the air of a master. I sighed, "Er Shu's kindness is greatly appreciated. Qie has no particular needs, but One is deeply troubled by not knowing the whereabouts of Fujun's remains." With that, I covered my face once more.

Wei Zhao assured, "**Zhangsao**, rest assured. Even if **Di** have to dig three feet into the ground in Xin'an, One will find **Xiongzhang** back."

After a brief pause, he continued, "However, **Di** do have a request to ask **Zhangsao**."

I was surprised, "What is it?"

Wei Zhao explained, "Tomorrow, **Di** will be inspecting the Xiliu Camp. I ask that **Zhangsao** and **Zhinu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="brother's daughter; niece"></sup> accompany me."

I paused for a moment, quickly understanding his intention.

The capital was not large, and among the stationed troops here, aside from the Imperial Guard safeguarding the palace, the most crucial force was the Xiliu Camp on the outskirts of the capital. Originally, Xiliu Camp was a military encampment in Chang'an, but it was destroyed after the chaos engulfed the realm. When the Emperor established his capital in Yongzhou, Wei Jue revived the old name, rebuilding the Xiliu Camp to inspire the hearts of the soldiers and civilians. Every detail in it was personally overseen by Wei Tan.

Now that Wei Zhao was taking on responsibilities in the imperial court, dealing with the ministers was relatively straightforward. However, winning the allegiance of the military might prove to be a more challenging task. Hence, he thought of both me and Ah Mi, hoping to use us to garner some support.

I didn't know that I still had some use.

"If **Ershu** extends the invitation, **Qie** shall gladly comply," I replied to Wei Zhao with warmth.

Wei Zhao's eyes flickered with a glint of light as he gave me a respectful bow, saying, "Thank you, **Zhangsao**."
