---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 117: City in Turmoil (Part 2)"
order: 117
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

"What do we do now?" Zhou **Shi** was on the verge of tears.

"We can't stay in the residence. Go!" I said, heading towards my own courtyard.

"Furen!" Ah Yuan's expression softened when she saw me return. She quickly came forward.

"Is everything packed?" I asked.

"Everything's packed."

I looked at Ah Mi in the wet nurse's arms. I took a few steps to a corner and opened a box. Inside were the weapons that Wei Tan had used. I picked out a sword and asked everyone to come and take something to defend themselves.

"I went to find Huang **Shu** just now. He hid a carriage at the back door," Ah Yuan said.

A sense of relief washed over me. Leading everyone out of the courtyard, we took a shortcut to the back door.

"**Shao Furen** has finally arrived!" Just as expected, Huang **Shu** was waiting here. Seeing us, he seemed to breathe a sigh of relief. He took the bundle from Ah Yuan while muttering, "When I saw Guo Furen asking for a carriage in the middle of the night, I had a hunch. I didn't expect it to come in handy... Hurry, someone just said the guards from Liangzhou might breach the city…"

"But there aren't enough carriages!" Zhou **Shi** fretted.

I shared her anxiety. Zhou **Shi** and Mao **Shi*, had sent their children back to Longxi at the beginning of the year, and they didn't bring any attendants with them, which was a relief. However, even with this arrangement, considering me, Ah Yuan, and the wet nurse, one carriage wouldn't suffice.

Just then, amidst the commotion, we heard the sound of a carriage approaching. It came clattering towards us.

The carriage wasn't moving very fast, and the driver shouted at us, "Get out of the way! Get out of the way!"

"Ah Yuan!" I shouted, and she understood, immediately joining me and drawing her sword. The driver, seemingly inexperienced, was startled by our approach. He couldn't reverse the carriage, so he let out a slow breath to bring it to a halt. Ah Yuan took the opportunity to grab the reins and pointed her sword at the driver. "Stop!"

The driver seemed thoroughly frightened and brought the carriage to a complete stop.

Just as I was about to approach and say something, suddenly, a multitude of figures surged in from the street, appearing to be soldiers.

"Hurry, get on the carriage! Head towards the south gate of the city!" I couldn't afford to wait. I shouted to Zhou **Shi** and the others while carrying Ah Mi, rushing towards the back of the carriage. I lifted the curtain and leaped on.

Before I could even settle in, the horse suddenly surged forward with great force.

"Wu... Waaah!" It seemed like Ah Mi was startled and started crying loudly.

"Don't cry, sweetheart, don't cry..." I tried to comfort her while catching my breath, my eyes fixed on the front. In the faint light, I could make out another woman inside the carriage.

Seeing the sword in my hand, she widened her eyes and let out a high-pitched scream, cowering in the corner of the carriage.

"Don't scream!" I pointed the sword at her.

The woman immediately fell silent.

I was panting, and as I gently eased my grip on Ah Mi, I felt my arms tingling and sore.

"Are you one of the female bandits from the mountains?" The woman asked nervously. After a moment, the light from a lantern on the street cast its glow into the carriage. Suddenly, she exclaimed, "You... you are the daughter of the Fu Family!"

Many in Yongdu have seen me before. I remained silent, focusing on soothing Ah Mi.

"I heard you married Wei Tan," the woman spoke, her eyes seeming to gleam faintly. "Do you think he's tall? Is he handsome? Don't you like of Pei Qian? When you married Wei Tan, did you have any hesitation? Do you still think Pei Qian is better?"

"Why do you talk so much?" I waved the sword in my hand impatiently and said.

The woman fell silent once again.

The sound of the whip cracking echoed continuously, the carriage raced forward at a breakneck speed. The night breeze carried a faint scent of smoke and fire into the curtains. Everywhere was in turmoil, filled with shouts and hurried footsteps.

Given the current situation, Ma Kui and the others haven't arrived yet, and with the chaos of the rebel forces entering the city, anything could happen. I still don't know the situation with Li Shang. It's not safe to stay in Yongdu. The most secure way to deal with the chaos is to find members of the Xiliu Camp. As long as we leave the southern part of the city…

“Furen!” Ah Yuan shouted anxiously from outside, “Another group of soldiers is approaching!” 

Whatever comes, let it come. 

I caught a glimpse of the corner of a building as we sped by. I decisively commanded, “Stop!”

The carriage jerked to a halt, the horses reined in tightly.

I immediately held onto Ah Mi, using the sword to lift the carriage curtain.

“Take me with you,” the woman said. “I'm just a wanderer. I'm usually busy, and finally got a little free time. I was just worried about being bored.”

While taking Ah Mi from my arms, Yuan said, “You're a woman, and don't seem like a laborer. What could you be busy with?”

"I write," the woman said.

"We won't take you," I interrupted before Ah Yuan could speak again. I looked at the woman and said, "Thank you, **Nǚjun**, please don't go any further. Turn around and go somewhere else. We may meet again." With that, I, Zhou **Shi**, and others slipped into a now pitch-black alleyway.

The flames and the sound of hooves passed by the alley, nobody noticed us.

Ah Yuan and I walked into the alley. This is the southern part of the city, a bustling and diverse area. The buildings here are not as orderly as elsewhere, ranging from simple houses to tall buildings. Under the moonlight, the alley twists and turns, and there seems to be a foul stench of decaying food or filth emanating from the ground. We had no choice but to cover our noses and mouths.

"Furen," Ah Yuan covered her nose and mouth with her sleeve, looking around, "Where are we?"

Without answering, I took a few steps forward, and a delicately painted door appeared before us.

"This is..." Zhou **Shi** and Mao **Shi** asked in astonishment.

I stepped forward and knocked on the bronze ring three times, then after a moment, I knocked seven more times. 

Before long, the door suddenly opened. 

A servant I had seen at the Danxia Temple looked at me with some surprise.

"Furen," he bowed.

"Is your master here?" I inquired.

Before the servant could respond, a lazy voice came from behind him, "You've finally remembered to come find me."

Ruochan appeared at the door, but the sky was too dark to discern her expression beneath the delicate makeup.

<br>
"Want some water?" Inside the room, Ruochan casually inserted her silk fan into a vase.

"En," I nodded while holding Ah Mi, my eyes scanning the surroundings. Thick curtains covered the windows, indicating recent arrangements. The furnishings inside were exquisite, adorned with elegant porcelain, delicate bronze wares, and opulent lacquerware–all of considerable value, akin to a noble's residence. However, the dangling scarlet canopy added a touch of seductiveness to the room, which is ambiguous and leads people to daydream.

This is Ruochan's Ningxiang Pavilion. Its distinctive eaves stand out in the Eastern Market, and I find myself stealing glances whenever I pass by. However, it's not a place for a respectable lady. This is my first time here. The five-story new building is quite conspicuous among the surrounding structures, but tonight, there's not a single trace of light visible from the outside.

Ah Mi was originally awakened and had been running around, but now she finally settled down. After giving her a little water, she yawned and seemed ready to go back to sleep.

Zhou **Shi** and Mao **Shi** appeared clearly embarrassed. They seemed to have already known where this place was, looking at Ruochan and then glancing around with a mixture of astonishment and confusion.

In contrast, Ruochan remained calm and composed. She didn't even glance at them, instead addressing the servant, "Is the courtyard gate locked? Have the lights been extinguished?"

"The lights have been extinguished," the servant replied, "from outside, one cannot discern any light within the house."

"And the disciples?"

"All the disciples have been settled properly."

Ruochan nodded and turned towards us.

"The city is in chaos," I said.

"I know," Ruochan replied calmly.

I looked at Zhou **Shi** and Mao **Shi**, then turned to Ruochan and said, "These are my **Tang Zhouli**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="妯娌 (zhóuli) - wives of brothers; sisters-in-law"></sup>, fleeing with me."

Ruochan nodded and gave them a courteous bow, saying, "**Qie** humble abode is simple and crude, and may not provide the best hospitality. One asks for Furens understanding."

Zhou **Shi** quickly replied, "Furen's kindness and virtue, **Qie** deeply appreciated it."

Just as the words left her lips, there was a faint hint of commotion in the distance. Everyone understood without needing to speak, and instantly fell silent.

"**Zhuren**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="master"></sup>," a servant rushed into the room, reporting, "Guo Cheng has abandoned the city and fled north. Wei Kang's forces have split into two groups, one pursuing Guo Cheng and the other entering the city for plunder. However, I heard that there is fierce fighting around **Chengxiang**'s residence and the Imperial Palace. There are also attackers at the South Gate, it seems to be the Xiliu Camp!"

With this information, the atmosphere in the room immediately grew tense and charged with excitement.

"The Liangzhou soldiers are sacking the city?" Mao **Shi**'s voice trembled. "I heard that back when He Kui entered Chang'an, he let his troops loot and commit atrocities for three full days. This…"

I too felt a sense of unease deep within me.

"The Xiliu Camp consists of my husband's subordinates," I tried to remain composed and looked at Ruochan. "If we can send word, perhaps they can come to our rescue."

Ruochan didn't say a word, but she pulled back the heavy fabric covering the window, allowing a narrow slit of it to open.

"Do you see that light?" she asked.

I looked, and indeed, there was a faint glow of a lantern hanging from the tall tower of a nearby temple.

"That is..." I looked at Ruochan in astonishment.

"That is the signal I arranged with Gongyang Gui," Ruochan said calmly. "If we encounter danger, I will have someone light that lantern, and he will come. With the city in such chaos, and the streets so perilous, who can you send to deliver a message?"

What she said was true. The outside was incredibly dangerous, and if the messenger were caught and revealed our presence here, it would likely be even more detrimental. 

Everyone exchanged glances, and for a moment, no one spoke.

But just then, there came a series of banging noises from outside, as if someone was pounding on the door.

Ruochan's face turned pale.

"Do not make a sound," she said with a strained expression. After speaking, she walked a few steps to the wall, lifted the hanging silk curtain, and with a push, the wall unexpectedly swung open, revealing a hidden chamber inside.

We were all astonished.

"Enter," Ruochan said succinctly.

We hurriedly went inside. The hidden chamber was not spacious, but it was sufficient for the five of us to conceal ourselves.

"If I don't call for you, do not come out," Ruochan whispered after I was the last to enter.

I nodded, and Ruochan closed the door, leaving us in complete darkness.

There was no trace of light before us, but we could hear the sounds quite clearly.

The banging on the door ceased, and before long, there was a commotion of footsteps and clamor. Someone had barged into the house

"Are they here to rob us?" the wet nurse asked nervously.

"Could it be that **San Shufu**'s men have discovered our whereabouts and come to apprehend us?" Mao **Shi** asked anxiously, her voice tinged with tears. "I heard he can be ruthless, showing no mercy even to his own kin…"

"Hush!" Zhou **Shi** quickly silenced them.

Then, with a loud crash, the door to our room was also kicked open, and someone entered. Following that, we heard the clinking and clattering of objects being moved, as if someone was moving the belongings.

"...Tsk! **Lao Si**,<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="literally means 'old four'. four here indicated the 4th in seniority"></sup> you don't even know how to pick! Those old porcelain pieces would've shattered before we even took them back to Liangzhou, what's the point of taking them?" a coarse voice grumbled.

Another voice chimed in, "I heard that these kinds of porcelain are also valuable. Even a small cup can be worth dozens of gold!"

"Is that so…"

We could only hear the sound of porcelain shattering, followed by the coarse voice laughing heartily. "Look for something else, look for something else! That porcelain may be valuable, but the handles are made of gold. Pry them off!"

"**Gongtai**," the servant's voice came, cautious and trembling, "If **Gongtai** desires wealth, **Xiaoren** shall gladly present it. Just please spare the belongings..."

There was a sharp cry, indicating that the servant had been struck.

Someone grumbled angrily, "What **Yeye**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. means grandpa. In this context, it is a vulgar, arrogant way for a person to refer to themselves (a 'tough guy' pronoun), essentially saying 'I am your superior/master.'"></sup> wants, he takes it! What's it to you!"

Another person laughed and said, "**Lao San**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="San = 3rd"></sup>, I heard the most valuable thing here isn't all this gold and silver, but the famous Taoniang of Ningxiang Pavilion. Many would pay a fortune just to catch a glimpse of her!"

Lewd laughter erupted, and the man with the coarse voice said, "Summon Taobiang! Tonight, **Yeye** will spend the night here!"

The servant said, "**Gongtai**, my **Zhuren** is not in this residence today. I'm afraid..."

"Not here?" the man sneered. "If not here, then I'll set this brothel ablaze. You lot conspiring with Guo Cheng for rebellion, I'll have you all arrested!"

"Wu..." Ah Mi was awakened by the commotion, and I quickly covered her mouth.

No one in the hidden chamber dared to make a sound.

"**Gongtai**, please take it easy," a soft voice came just as we were trembling with fear. It was Ruochan. "Esteemed **Gongtai**, our servant is crude. Why does **Gongtai** get so angry?"

A few of them laughed boisterously.

"Are you Taoniang?" They saw Ruochan and their tone turned licentious. "Hmm... you do indeed look quite good. Brothers, who's going first?"

"Gentlemen, please wait." Ruochan remained composed. "This is the capital, under the Emperor's rule. You enter a residence to plunder, aren't you afraid of the law?"

"The law?" They seemed momentarily puzzled, then burst into loud laughter.

Someone spat and said, "What law! **Yeye** is the law!" He leered, "I've heard you're skilled in the bedroom arts. Tonight, serve us well, and I'll let you play the role of 'the law' for a change!"
