---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 120: Ruinous Battle"
order: 120
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

I smiled. 

"After we part ways today, who knows when we'll meet again?' Ruochan looked at me, letting out a gentle sigh.

"When will we meet again? Are you leaving?" I asked.

"It's you," Ruochan smiled faintly, "After **Da Gongzi** returns to the capital, you being the formidable **Da Gongzi Furen**, even the Empress will have to consider your opinion. It might be difficult for me to meet you." 

I was taken aback. While last night was chaotic with the turmoil of war, Ruochan was thinking ahead. I changed the subject and asked, "Ruochan, what are your plans with Gongyang **Gongzi**?"

"En?" Ruochan glanced at me and smirked, "What else can be done?"

"Didn't you let go of your grievances with him?" I hurriedly said, "Ruochan, Gongyang **Gongzi** is a good man."

Ruochan nodded, "If he wasn't a good man, I wouldn't have agreed to marry him."

I was momentarily stunned, and a wave of joy surged within me. I looked at her, my eyes filled with a smile.

"Really?" I held onto her hand, somewhat disbelieving. After a moment, I thought again, "What about the brothel? Are you not going to run it anymore?"

"Run it, why not?" Ruochan returned my grip on her hand, her answer resolute. Seeing my surprise, she shrugged it off, "Those officials in the court may act all high and mighty, but don't they engage in their own share of political maneuvering day in and day out? Why shouldn't a woman be allowed to run a brothel discreetly?"

I couldn't help but laugh and cry inwardly. While I still found her unconventional approach somewhat hard to accept, Gongyang Gui didn't mind, and it was her way of living. I thought about the arguments between her and Gongyang Gui in the past, as well as the way they had leaned on each other last night. My heart was filled with countless emotions.

"It's you," Ruochan looked at me, her voice gentle. "Ah Jin, have you thought through what lies ahead?"

"The future?" I was taken aback.

Ruochan's gaze was profound, "Do you think everything is perfectly fine now?"

Her words struck a chord with my concerns. I fell silent for a moment, then shook my head.

Wei Kang is dead, the Liangzhou troops are scattered, and those who could flee have fled. However, Guo Cheng has disappeared without a trace. He originally had fifty thousand men under him. Even if he lost half in the battle with Wei Kang, if he manages to regroup, it would pose a significant threat to Yongdu.

Wei Tan, in order to deal with Liang Wen, has already moved most of the troops from various provinces and counties to the south, aside from those stationed on the border. In the capital, apart from the Xiliu Camp, our only hope lies in seeking aid from Wei Tan. Last night, Cheng Mao informed me that he had lit the signal fires on the outskirts of the city to send a message to Wei Tan. However, time is of the essence. Wei Tan is in Taizhou, and if Guo Cheng launches another attack…

"Military matters are beyond our control," I said to Ruochan, "The situation in Yongdu is indeed precarious. If you wish to leave, Gongyang **Gongzi**…"

"What I'm talking about isn't Yondu," Ruochan looked at me. "I'm talking about the future. Ah Jin, if **Da Gongzi** defeats Liang Wen and unifies the north and south, the Grand Minister of War position isn't enough for him anymore. Moving to higher places will bring different sceneries (different set of challenges). Do you understand?"

I was a bit stunned. Of course, I understood what she was saying.

The high place. I looked into the distance, and a faint bluish-gray outline appeared on the horizon – that was the grand hall of the Imperial Palace.

"Furen," at this moment, Ah Yuan approached, saluted Ruochan, and said to me, "It's time to set out."

I nodded and looked at Ruochan.

"Go on," Ruochan's lips curved slightly, her gaze profound.

<br>
The timely reinforcement from the Xiliu Camp prevented any harm to the Wei residence from the attackers.

However, there were traces of blood everywhere on the street that had not been washed away. On the main road in front of the Wei residence, paved with green stones, blood seeped into the cracks between the stones. When the carriage passed by an alley, Ah Yuan even saw a severed hand lying inside.

When we returned, there were quite a few servants and attendants still inside. Upon questioning, we learned that when chaos erupted last night, they heard of the rebel soldiers entering the city and tried to flee. However, the gates of the capital were sealed, and most of them couldn't escape. This dynasty's laws regarding fleeing are severe; if common servants and slaves are caught attempting to escape, they face harsh punishment or even deportation, let alone those belonging to the Prime Minister Residence.

After I returned to the Wei Residence, there was a large group of people kneeling in the courtyard. They were all servants who had returned, and none of them could hold back their tears and sobs.

Zhao **Shi** and Mao **Shi** looked at them with disdain, saying that servants who betrayed their masters, even if they were spared from death, could not escape a flogging as punishment.

I, however, felt utterly exhausted. Most of these people, I couldn't even recall their names, nor had I ever relied on their loyalty. When faced with great danger, my first thought was escape, let alone for these servants and maids. Besides, the master, Guo Furen, had already abandoned them. Why shouldn't they be allowed to flee?

The steward was no longer here, but the treasury keeper, Yan Jun, remained. It's said that he was the only one who didn't flee last night. He stayed in the treasury all night, armed with the weapons of the residence, and even brought his children with him.

I appointed Yan Jun as the new steward and instructed him to assign tasks to the family members to clean up the Wei residence.

I took a look around our courtyard and found it to be in good order. I wiped myself clean, changed my clothes, and tidied up Ah Mi as well. She had been in and out of sleep last night, shedding tears a few times, but today her spirits were as high as her father's, who always seemed to have an excess of energy. I made a funny face at her, and she giggled happily.

I summoned Yan Jun and asked him about Xu **Ji**'s situation. He said that Xu **Ji** had thrown herself into a well last night, and her body was discovered this morning. Liang Hui's body had been placed in the ancestral hall. The bodies of Ren **Ji** and the other concubines had also been collected and were currently being kept in a courtyard, awaiting burial.

Upon hearing these words, I fell into silence. Liang Hui was not only a princess but also Xu **Ji**'s matriarch. Xu **Ji** had killed her, sealing her own fate. She was well aware of the consequences, and while this act might seem irrational, it was not absurd. Xu **Ji**'s life was like a vine, clinging to the Wei family, hoping for the favor of her husband. In this world, she only had two possessions-Wei Zhi and Wei Zhao. When Guo Furen took away her son and Wei Zhao abandoned her, Xu **Ji** lost any will to live on.

"Furen," Yan Jun asked me, "**Gongzhu**'s death is not yet known in the palace. Furen, see…"

"I will go to meet the Emperor and report in person," I said. "**Gongzhu** passed away amidst the chaos. Although **Jiushu** and **Gushi** are not here, the funeral arrangements must not be delayed. We must attend to it immediately at home."

Yan Jun acknowledged my instructions.

With the plan settled, I wasted no more time. I instructed Ah Yuan to fetch suitable clothing and accessories for me, preparing for my visit to the palace.

Everyone knows that Guo Furen and Wei Zhao have defected. However, we must still work hard to save faces. Liang Hui's death, attributed to the chaos, ultimately caused by Wei Zhao. On my end, the grand mourning is a display of benevolence and righteousness, providing a clear explanation to the royal family and the public at large.

When Chang'an fell to rebel forces years ago, I was already married and living far away. Upon my return, I was saddened to see the city in ruins. Now, as I arrive at the Anqing Gate of the Imperial Palace and witness the collapsed palace walls and the burnt-down halls, the shock I feel is no less than what I experienced in Chang'an.

The Anqing Gate is the northern entrance to the Imperial Palace, built after the Emperor relocated the capital to Yongzhou. Though it may not rival Chang'an in grandeur or size, there is still a certain majesty to the Emperor's residence. Now, damaged bricks and charred wood are scattered about the ground. The gate itself is no longer discernible, leaving behind a gaping hole. Some laborers are busy clearing away the debris, salvaging any usable bricks and timber. However, there is a greater abundance of broken tiles and shattered bricks piled up, resembling small mountains.

Further away, I saw a row of makeshift shelters. Many soldiers were outside, some tearing fabric, others engaged in conversation, all looking weary and worn. In addition to them, there were many civilians, dressed in mourning attire, weeping and wailing incessantly outside the shelters.

I instructed the coachmen to stop and got off the carriage. I walked towards them.

The soldiers in front of the makeshift shelters looked surprised when they saw me. Shortly after, a military officer approached me and saluted, "Fu Furen."

I returned the salute, glanced at the makeshift shelters, then looked at the civilians still weeping outside. I asked the military officer, "Are these all the soldiers who perished in the battle last night?"

The officer looked weary and nodded, informing me, "Indeed."

I nodded. Cheng Mao had informed me that yesterday, when Wei Zhao fled, he had led the troops from Liaodong and attempted to hold the Emperor hostage. The Imperial Guards defending the palace fought bravely. Wei Kang pressed on, and Wei Zhao couldn't hold out any longer, so he abandoned the attempt and left.

Seeing these makeshift shelters, one after another, seemingly endless, it was clear how brutal the events of last night had been.

"One wonders how many soldiers were killed or injured?" I inquired.

"Reporting to Furen," the military officer replied, "There were 2,700 Imperial Guards, and in the battle last night, 2,357 were killed, with 343 wounded."

I quickly calculated in my mind and confirmed that the total of the casualties and deaths was indeed 2,700.

A heavy weight settled in my heart as I looked at the surrounding soldiers. Many of them had strips of cloth wrapped around their heads, arms, and legs. Some didn't bother to bind their wounds, allowing the injuries to starkly reveal themselves.

As I looked into the makeshift shelters, many severely injured individuals lay inside. Some moaned in pain, while others appeared to be clinging to their last breath.

"Where are the fallen soldiers?" I asked the military officer.

"They are over there," he pointed to a row of shelters draped with white flags not far away. The sounds of mourning reached my ears. Many civilians had gathered outside the shelters, with some beating their chests and stamping their feet, wailing in grief.

"Many of our brothers are from Yongdu, and those are their grieving relatives who have come," the military officer explained.

I remained silent. What came to my mind was Wei Tan.

I remember when I returned from Jiangdong, I discovered he had a wound on his back, and my heart ached for him. Now, seeing all these people, the pain, the death, and the grief-stricken expressions of their loved ones, it filled me with a sense of dread.

"Get a few people! Hold him down!" a voice came from inside one of the shelters.

I looked over and saw an elderly man crouched in front of a severely injured soldier, tending to his wounds.

Several soldiers hurried over.

"Hold on a bit longer," the old man said, instructing the soldiers to keep the man still. Soon after, a pained cry echoed out, the sound so loud it sent shivers down my spine.

When the old man raised his head, I was momentarily taken aback.

He looked surprised when he saw me.

"Tu **Taiyi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Imperial Physician"></sup>," I said, and as he stood up, I nodded and gave a slight bow.

"Fu Furen," Tu **Taiyi** quickly returned the courtesy.

This physician, from the Imperial Medical Office, had a decent reputation. When Wei Jue fell ill in the past, he had visited the Wei residence several times. However, like the other physicians, he was also driven away by Wei Jue.

"Is **Taiyi** here to treat the soldiers?" I asked.

"Indeed," Tu **Taiyi** nodded. "There were many casualties last night. **Da Sima** summoned us all today to provide medical care."

As we were talking, another round of painful cries emanated from the shelter. 

Tu **Taiyi** glanced over, let out a sigh, and wiped the sweat from his forehead.

"Is there a problem?" I asked, noticing the look on his face.

Tu **Taiyi** looked at me and said, "One won't hide it from Furen. When **Da Sima** went to battle, most of the medicinal supplies from the Imperial Medical Office were taken. Now, they are all depleted. We have no means to stop bleeding or alleviate pain, let alone provide proper treatment."

I nodded slightly, remaining silent.
