---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 123: Victorious Return (Part 2)"
order: 123
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

I shook my head. "But if one dies, one would be oblivious to happiness, let alone liberation..."

"The siege ladder is here! Fire! Infantry!" At this moment, a commanding officer shouted loudly.

A small commotion erupted on the city wall. Shields were taken away, crossbowmen switched to bows and arrows, and they crowded along the battlements, firing haphazardly below. More soldiers rushed up from beneath the wall, prepared to engage the enemy who had breached the walls in close combat.

People were constantly being hit by arrows and falling to the ground, only to be quickly replaced by others. 

"Ballistae! Fire at the siege rams!" Cheng Mao's shout echoed through.

"They've reached the city gates," the Emperor smiled at me.

The smile was eerily unsettling. Just as I was filled with confusion, a resounding bell toll echoed.

All the soldiers on the city walls were startled.

"The Imperial Palace!" In a moment, someone shouted, "It's from the Imperial Palace!"

I gazed towards the direction of the Imperial Palace, and sure enough, flames flickered accompanied by thick smoke. It was the alarm beacon. Panic welled up from the depths of my heart, and I turned to look at the Emperor.

He too looked in that direction, a calm smile on his face. After a moment, he turned to me. "Do you still remember the stream where I used to fish?"

I was momentarily stunned, but soon, understanding dawned on me.

The imperial Palace in Yongdu wasn't large. Within the palace gardens, there were only three small ponds and a meandering stream. I had heard that these were constructed by the former Marquis of Yong. The four bodies of water were interconnected, and they were supplied by fresh water brought in from outside the city.

I gazed at the Emperor's serene face, suddenly feeling as though I had never truly known him.

"How could you do this?" My voice quivered. "They are defending the city for you..."

"They do it for themselves," the Emperor's expression turned cold. "And for **Da Sima**."

"**Bixia** still has wives and children! If the chaos comes, they will also be in danger!" I exclaimed loudly, and the surrounding soldiers turned to look.

"They have already left," the Emperor remained composed, a slight smile on his lips as he caressed Ah Mi's face. "As for you and me, we will both meet our end."

"Perhaps not!" a cold voice rang out, followed by the sound of hurried footsteps. The soldiers cleared a path, and a group of people descended from the city. At the forefront was none other than Pei Qian.

He looked weary, glancing at me and then at the Emperor, before bowing. "Reporting to **Bixia**, the rebel forces within the palace have all been eliminated!"

My heart, which felt like it was plummeting, was suddenly caught.

The Emperor's expression, however, underwent a drastic change. He stared at Pei Qian, seemingly in disbelief. After a moment, he turned his gaze towards the palace.

The fires still raged, and the tolling of the bell persisted.

"That was a feint," Pei Qian said calmly. "It wasn't until we returned to the base of the city that the Imperial Guards began to set the fires."

The candle flames flickered and danced in the wind, casting erratic shadows on the Emperor's face, which now wore an uncertain expression.

"**Bixia**," I watched him carefully, then glanced at Ah Mi, whispering gently, "It's all over now."

"**Bixia**!" At this moment, an urgent voice reached us. Looking over, I saw Empress Xu ascending the city walls, cradling the young Prince Li in her arms. Following behind her were Wei **Jieyu** and Wei **Guiren**, both weeping inconsolably.

The Emperor's face contorted with a mixture of shock and anger upon seeing them. He turned to Pei Qian. "It was you!"

Pei Qian didn't deny it. He said, "When we arrived, the rebels were about to silence the Empress."

"**Bixia**!" Empress Xu's eyes were swollen and red. "Just now, when Li’er cried out, wanting to find **Bixia**, we had nowhere to hide. We were fortunate that the soldiers came to our aid. If anything were to happen to **Bixia**, we, as widowed mothers with orphaned children, would have no will to live!"

The young prince in her arms cried loudly. The Emperor looked at them, his face bearing an icy stillness, devoid of any trace of warmth.

Just at that moment, a sudden drumbeat echoed, resonating like distant summer thunder rolling across the sky, faint yet resonant.

A burst of cheers erupted from the city walls. 

Everyone was astonished, looking towards the source of the commotion.

"**Da Sima**!" a soldier exclaimed with wild joy. "**Da Sima** has returned! *,Da Sima** is truly back!"

My heart seemed to surge in an instant. I stared wide-eyed at the orange night sky, but my view was blocked by the densely packed soldiers. All that remained was the orange hue of the night sky and the thunderous drumming that echoed through the air, sending shivers down my spine.

In that fleeting moment, the clash of battle came to a halt. The soldiers who had been in a frenzy of movement seemed, all at once, to be shouting themselves hoarse in jubilation. Around me, some were overcome with tears of joy, while others embraced in fits of laughter.

"**Bixia**..." I looked at the Emperor, tears in my eyes. "Ah Mi also has a father. Please, return her to **Qie**."

The Emperor gazed at me, then at Empress Xu.

Empress Xu caressed the little prince, still sobbing.

The Emperor sighed, looked at Ah Mi, and after a moment, handed her over to me.

I quickly reached out, and as soon as I touched Ah Mi, I immediately pulled her into my arms, fearful that the Emperor might change his mind.

Her tiny body, tender and warm, gradually dispelled the chill that had enveloped me. I held her tightly, kissing her as if she were the most precious gift in the world…

"**Bixia**!" A cry of alarm rang out. I turned to look and saw the Emperor clutching his chest, then collapsing. The eunuchs hurriedly rushed to support him.

"**Bixia**!" Empress Xu quickly handed little Prince Li to someone nearby and rushed forward to support the Emperor, tears streaming down her face.

The Emperor's face was pale, a patch of crimson staining his robes. He struggled to breathe, blood on his lips, his eyes wide and fixed ahead.

"Fetch the imperial physician quickly!" There was chaos as someone shouted.

I held Ah Mi tightly in my arms, staring at the Emperor, unmoving.

"It's all over now," a voice murmured softly.

I turned my head, and there stood Pei Qian behind me. He had been busy for quite some time, a sheen of sweat glistening on his forehead, yet he showed no signs of weariness, his countenance still as refined as jade.

He looked at me, then at Ah Mi. Before long, his brows relaxed, and he smiled at her.

"Wu... ge ge (sound of giggles)..." Ah Mi gazed at him, and for some reason, she laughed joyfully too.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

I had imagined Wei Tan's return many times before. Even when I was almost deceived by Lu Zheng, I never gave up hope.

He appeared on numerous occasions: when I was sleeping alone late at night, when everyone was mourning in the hall, when I was flying from the Wei residence, when danger loomed, and so on. My attitude towards him was as changeable as my emotions - from laughter to coquetry, from complaints to teasing and even kicking and pinching him. But when he truly appeared, I could only hold Ah Mi in my arms on the city wall, watching the sea of torches surging, attackers abandoning their armour, scattering in all directions under the onslaught of soldiers from inside and outside the city. Banners, weapons, and corpses were strewn across the ground.

And leading the converging tide illuminated by the torchlight, there was a spirited steed, its rider clad in armour. It was the very sight I had longed for during this period of time.

My nose started to sting, but I feared showing any signs of distress. I blinked back my tears, the underlying joy in my heart undiminished. I wanted Ah Mi to see it too, but she was nestled quietly in my arms, already sound asleep.

Almost every soldier's lips echoed the words "Da Sima" Below the city, countless people flooded the streets. Some carried lanterns, others held torches aloft.

Amidst the clamour of voices, the three words "Da Sima" could be faintly heard, like the roaring of waves and the howling of a gale, repeated over and over, accompanied by the beat of drums.

As I watched them, I suddenly felt that Wei Tan's entrance into the city would be better without my presence. Here, all I could do was watch, unable to contribute anything else.

"Go back," I said to Ah Yuan.

"Go back?" Ah Yuan looked a bit surprised.

I nodded, gesturing for her to look at Ah Mi.

Ah Yuan seemed a bit disappointed but smiled nonetheless, accompanying me back to the residence.

Before the night had even passed, as I entered through the main gate and saw the funeral hall draped in white mourning fabric, I couldn't help but feel as though I had entered a different world.

When Yan Jun saw me returning with Ah Mi in my arms, his tense face seemed to relax. He led the servants forward to pay their respects, repeatedly apologising and asking for punishment for negligence.

I was already quite exhausted, so I instructed Yan Jun to follow the family rules and returned to the courtyard.

After gently wiping Ah Mi's body, I carefully dressed her. She was a bit displeased at being awakened, so I hurriedly comforted her back to sleep.

Suddenly, the sound of footsteps reached my ears from outside.

"**Da Gongzi**..." a servant's voice was cut off by the creaking of the door. I looked up, and there stood Wei Tan at the doorway.

The clatter of the armour was somewhat noisy. As our eyes met, I quickly pressed a finger against my lips.

Wei Tan froze in his tracks, looking at Ah Mi from a distance. The sharp edges on his face softened instantly.

I stood up and walked towards him.

Wei Tan stood at the doorway, completely still. For some reason, as I approached him, my steps quickened. Yet, just a step or two away, I involuntarily came to a halt. Ah Mi needed to sleep, and the room wasn't brightly lit.


Wei Tan held his helmet in his hand, his complexion a shade darker than before, but it emphasised the sharpness of his brows and features even more. Unclear emotions surged up in my throat. This face, I had longed for it, and I had seen it in my dreams so often that now, even as I beheld him, I still found it hard to believe.

"Why do you cry as soon as you see me?" Wei Tan's voice carried a hint of helplessness. Before long, his hand reached out and embraced my shoulder.

In an instant, I began to sob, looking up at him. Tears flowed continuously, blurring my vision.

"It's alright..." Wei Tan seemed to be trying his best to keep his voice gentle. He kissed my forehead, soothingly stroking my back. "It's alright, hmm?"

His lips were dry and rough, and his breath carried the scent of sweat and dust. I held onto him tightly, crying even harder. After a while, I lifted my head, venting my frustration as I pounded his shoulders and chest with force. "You... you didn't say a word to me! I almost got deceived while I had Ah Mi with me! I... I've been mourning for you for the past two days... wuwu... I thought you were dead! Wuwuwuwu..."

"It's alright..." Wei Tan's voice was filled with remorse. He held me even tighter, pressing my head against his chest, allowing me to kick and strike, all the while comforting me.

<br>
The candlelight cast an orange glow. Wei Tan stood by a wooden rack, slowly removing his armour, stealing glances at me from time to time.

I sat on the bed. I had finished crying, but I still gasped for breath in intervals. I watched him work on his belt for a while, hesitated, then stood up and went over to help him.

"No need," Wei Tan held my hand. "It's all covered in dirt and blood. It's filthy."

I glanced at his armour, and indeed, it was quite dirty. There was a large, obvious wet mark on it.

"Why didn't you say anything just now?" I was both angry and amused, trying to keep a straight face.

"Furen was letting off steam. How could **Weifu** dare to interrupt?" Wei Tan looked at the messy room, and sincerely said, "If Furen wants to let off steam again, wait until **Weifu** takes off the armour so it won't hurt when Furen hits."

I couldn't help but twitch the corner of my lips, but I didn't want him to see through me. I turned around and sat back on the bed.

There was a pot and cups on the table. I thought Wei Tan hadn't had any water since he came back, so I picked up a cup and filled it.

At that moment, a stack of papers appeared before my eyes.

I blinked in surprise, then looked up. Wei Tan held the papers in one hand and his removed armor in the other.

"What is this?" I asked.

"A letter," Wei Tan said.

I took it in astonishment.

It was a thick stack of papers, totaling over a dozen sheets. As I unfolded them one by one, I saw that each one was a drawing of little figures. Figures in armor, figures in simple brown clothing, figures bare-chested.

The figures sat on boats, and within two days, they were riding on horses. The horses galloped across rivers, over mountains, through fields. Sometimes they faced the sun, sometimes they waded through water, sometimes they were drenched in rain.

Some of the sheets had many figures, while others had only a few. Some appeared to have been drawn meticulously, while others seemed hastily done. Yet without exception, at the end of each sheet, the little figure lay on the ground, separated by a stretch of clouds, accompanied by a woman in a skirt and an even smaller figure.

Wei Tan's drawing skills were always so crude, with heads disproportionately large, making them look comical.

I lowered my head, looking at them, unable to contain my laughter, but tears welled up in my eyes.

Wei Tan sat down beside me, watching me.

I looked at him too.

Those eyes, deep and intense, seemed to hold a power that could captivate anyone. In the past, I used to feel uneasy under their gaze and would instinctively look away. But later, I realised how beautiful they were, capable of drawing one into a state of intoxication.

He reached out and gently wiped away the tears from the corner of my eyes. The roughness of his fingertips brushed against my eye sockets, feeling gritty.

I couldn't hold back any longer. I moved closer, embracing him and burying my head in the crook of his neck.

"At that time, all communication had to be cut off from the rear, mine was the same," Wei Tan said, stroking my hair. "So, I saved it all up, waiting to share it with you when I returned."

"En," I murmured softly, listening to the beating of his heart beneath his chest, closing my eyes and savouring the moment.

"Do you miss me?" his voice was low.

"I do," I replied. Wei Tan didn't say anything more, he just held me, gently caressing my hair.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Although Wei Tan returned victorious, there were still matters to attend to regarding Wei Zhao and Guo Cheng.

Guo Cheng was shot by a crossbow on the city walls as he tried to flee and died on the spot. After leading his remaining two thousand troops on a five-hundred-mile run, Wei Zhao was captured by Chen Feng, one of Wei Tan's generals. The rest of the scattered troops were either killed or captured, totaling over seventy-five thousand.

On the next day, early in the morning, news arrived.

Guo Furen was found in a distant village, far from Yongdu, along with the critical Wei Jue. When Wei Jue was sent back to the Wei Mansion, Wei Jiao appeared with him.

"Greetings, Furen," he smiled and saluted when he saw me.

"Wei **Bianque**," I looked at him in surprise, then glanced at Ah Yuan, saying, "It's been a long time, **Bianque**."

Ah Yuan looked a bit embarrassed, but Wei Jiao remained calm, saying, "Furen looks well."

As I observed their expressions, I shifted the conversation and inquired about Wei Jue's condition.

Wei Jiao sighed and shook his head. "**Chengxiang**'s illness has dragged on for too long. Surviving this recent ordeal without succumbing is already a stroke of luck. With all **Mou**’s knowledge and efforts, One can, at best, buy him another month."

Hearing this, I nodded slightly.

After Wei Jiao left, I asked Ah Yuan about him. "Was Wei **Bianque** brought back by **Da Gongzi**?"

"En," Ah Yuan said, smiling somewhat awkwardly. "He was found by **Da Gongzi** in Runan. With **Da Gongzi** escorting him, even if he didn't want to return, he had to."

"Where did he go before?" I asked. "Did he really wander outside for almost half a year?"

"Yes, but also no." Ah Yuan whispered, "As Furen knows, treating **Chengxiang**'s illness is quite tricky. He said he still needs to live on to take a wife, so..."

"But he's not giving up on treatment," she hurriedly added. "Yang **Taiyi**, who often treats **Chengxiang**, is also highly skilled in treating strokes. According to Wei Jiao, having one more or one less in Yongdu won't make a significant difference."

I nodded, patting her hand, and didn't say more.

Some illnesses are hard to cure. Even if Wei Jiao is willing to treat Wei Jue, Wei Jue's temper might not make it easy for Wei Jiao to be of much help. Wei Tan probably understands this too. After capturing Wei Jiao, he didn't seem to make things difficult for him.

