---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 124: Farewell"
order: 124
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

Wei Jue was a war hero and is also the **Zhugong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="master of the family"></sup>. As he returned to the Wei Residence, the hearts of the people were filled with concern.

However, Guo Furen and Wei Zhao were quite different. How to handle these two individuals became a subject of heated discussion both above and below.

There's no need to recount Wei Zhao's deeds, from conspiring against the state, massacring in the capital, to attempting to seize the Emperor. Although he learned much of this from Wei Jue, when he took action, even his own family and relatives were not spared. When news of his capture spread, surprisingly, no one showed any sympathy.

Guo Furen is also a complicated matter. Wei Zhao's actions are closely tied to her.

However, Guo Furen is, after all, the **Zhumu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="mistress of the household"></sup>. She has always been in charge of Wei Jue's care. If Guo Furen were to leave, I'm afraid there would be no suitable replacement.

Both of these individuals pose great problems, and Wei Tan has been deeply troubled by this.

Since that night, I have only seen Guo Furen. 

After fleeing and returning, Guo Furen appears to have aged significantly. The once well-preserved countenance now withered within a few short days, with sunken eye sockets, dull eyes, and both temples streaked with silver.

After all, she is Wei Jue's wife. When Wei Tan sees her, he still pays his respects and addresses her "**Muqin**." When I see her, I would also address her as "**Gushi**". However, in the past, there used to be a facade of respect. But now, it's just mere formalities.

When we bow to Guo Furen, she shows no response. She simply rises and silently walks away, her expression resembling that of a statue. And whenever we go to visit Wei Jue, she remains quiet and reserved. It seems that aside from attending to Wei Jue, all her thoughts and efforts are devoted to serve him.

<br>
On the second day of Wei Jue's return to the residence, Wei Tan came back earlier than usual. Ah Mi was playing on the bed, looking lively and in good spirits.

This child has an excellent memory. Even though it's been two or three months since Ah Mi last saw Wei Tan, she hasn't completely forgotten him. After spending a few days together, when Wei Tan approached, Ah Mi reached out to him just like before. Wei Tan was delighted beyond measure.

"**Nu’er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="daughter"></sup>, when you grow a little older, **Fuqin** will teach you how to ride a horse and take you to sit on a big boat by the river!" Wei Tan lifted Ah Mi high in the air.

Ah Mi enjoyed this and giggled. 

"In other families, when they make wishes for their daughters, they say 'grow up to be beautiful and marry a fine husband'. But **Da Gongzi** says 'ride horses and sit on boats'." The wet nurse couldn't help but chuckle.

"My daughter, of course, is different from others'." Wei Tan said dismissively. He continued, teasing Ah Mi while looking at me, "See, Ah Mi, even **Muqin** is smiling. It's evident that **Fuqin** is right, isn't it?"

I looked at him helplessly and said, "You talk nonsense." After speaking, I picked up Ah Mi.

When it was time to sleep, Wei Tan and I shared the bedding. He slept on the outside, I on the inside, and Ah Mi in the middle. Ah Mi fell asleep quickly and soundly. I closed my eyes, but I didn't feel sleepy. I wasn't alone. Not long after, the sound of tossing and turning came from the bedding.

"Fujun can't sleep?" I asked.

"En, I slept for a while in the camp this afternoon," Wei Tan replied, somewhat surprised. "Furen can’t sleep either?"

"En," I said.

Wei Tan reached out a hand from beside the pillow and gently stroked my hair. 

In these past two days, we've been busy with our respective tasks. Moments like this, lying together and talking, are truly rare and precious.

"Fujun is thinking about **Er Shu** and **Gushi**’s matter," I pondered for a moment and asked, "What was discussed in court today?"

Wei Tan said: "**Er Di** has been demoted to a commoner and exiled to Rongzhou.”

I was surprised. This decision could almost be considered gentle. Wei Zhao wouldn't face any punishment, and Rongzhou wasn't a desolate place either.

"Is this what Fujun wishes?" I asked.

"En," Wei Tan replied, then hesitated. "It's also **Fuqin**'s wish. He doesn't want me to use heavy sentences. Though he can’t say it in words, I understand."

I didn't say much either. I could roughly guess Wei Jue's intention. Now that Wei Tan holds considerable power, he must be more cautious in his actions. Since ancient times, emperors have ruled the world with filial piety and fraternal respect. While Wei Tan's harsh treatment of Wei Zhao may be justifiable in terms of legal principles, it cannot escape being criticised as fratricide when spoken by others.

"What about Guo Furen?" I asked.

"I also asked **Fuqin** if he wanted **Muqin** to accompany him," Wei Tan said. "He nodded."

I understood. In this way, everything should be fine.

"Let's go to sleep." I looked up and kissed his cheek.

Wei Tan smiled. Just as I was about to leave, he suddenly grasped my head and leaned down.

Breaths entwined between lips and tongues, desires long untouched ignited like dry tinder meeting a spark, catching fire with just a touch.

He pulled aside the thin blanket, turned over and came close, his hand slipping beneath my clothes. Before long, there was a cool touch against my skin.

Wei Tan also removed his clothes, gazing down at me from above, our breaths rising and falling, entwining. Yet, he paused in his movements.

The light in the room was dim, but I could feel his intense gaze. It traced over the contours of my skin, inch by inch, moving slowly. In that stillness, I felt a slight shiver, heightened by his scrutiny.

"Fujun..." My voice carried a strange, tender inflection.

"Light the lamp," Wei Tan said.

I immediately startled, and grabbed his hand that was reaching for the lampstand with all my strength: "......Ah Mi!"

Wei Tan chuckled softly. He reached out to stroke my hair and leaned down.

This time, the kisses were much gentler. He caressed my body, his lips, tongue, and fingers teasing with a practised touch, seeming thoroughly captivated. "Ah Jin..."

I was breathing heavily, and in some parts, due to the passage of time, there was a slight unfamiliarity, causing me to involuntarily let out a soft moan.

"If it hurts, don't endure it..." Wei Tan lifted my legs and said in a rough voice. After speaking, he suddenly thrust forward.

There was none of the expected dryness and pain. This time, our intimacy was unexpectedly fulfilling, perhaps the most gratifying other than the one outside the bathroom ever since Ah Mi was born.

Wei Tan clearly noticed this as well. He placed me on the bed, then on his lap; he had me face him, then turned away from him.… The pleasure brought by our passion was intoxicating, akin to the lingering effects of fine wine, leaving one's senses in disarray and the heart deeply entranced. 

I couldn't help but moan softly, leaving red marks on his back with my fingertips…

He wanted to place me on the desk, but I felt both embarrassed and annoyed, so I pushed him away with force.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

On the next day, Ah Mi woke up even earlier than us.

When I woke up, the soreness all over my body made me not want to move.

Wei Tan had already left, and there were other matters to attend to in the residence.

Yesterday, all of the Wei family's sons and nephews had returned home. Both Zhou **Shi** and Mao **Shi** were overjoyed to see their husbands return safely. They hosted a feast at Zhou **Shi**’s house and invited us to join them for a gathering.

Since Wei Tan returned to Yongdu, he has resumed his habit of leaving early and returning late. In our residence, only Wei An and I go together.

Wei An came back with Wei Ci and the others. After being away for two or three months, his voice surprisingly didn't break anymore. When he speaks, there's now a hint of a deeper, more mature tone.

Wei Ci still has that hearty laugh. After the family gathered for a feast, he spoke endlessly about the battle.

Wei Tan's drawings are simple and straightforward, showing only what he wears each day, whether on land or on water. The precise details of his experiences, however, are only revealed at times like this.

Liang Wen fell into Wei Tan's trap. While Liang Wen's target was the northern regions, the primary concern was not the land itself, but the supply of provisions. Over the course of a dozen days, Wei Tan set up ambushes over a thousand miles, luring Liang Wen deeper step by step. Then, about five or six days ago, the opportune moment arrived. Wei Tan gave the order to launch an attack from all four sides. The Liang army was unable to retreat in time, suffering heavy losses in Taiyang. Liang Wen led his troops in a hasty withdrawal, only to find his escape route cut off. At the banks of the Xin'an River, in the midst of the chaos of battle, Liang Wen was struck by an arrow, fell from his horse, and perished.

Wei Ci said, "**Da Tangxiong** originally intended to personally lead the pursuit against the remnants. However, upon hearing that things were not going well in Yongdu, he promptly turned back and returned to the capital. He left behind Mengzhong, Xu Shou, and others to lead the troops and head south."

I and Zhou **Shi**, Mao **Shi**, and the others listened and nodded.

"I still need to inspect the crossbow machines on the city walls," Wei An said as he stood up from the table.

Everyone agreed, and Wei An bowed before heading out of the hall.

"One heard that the navy feigned defeat in Xin'an?" Zhou **Shi** gazed at Wei An's departing figure, her expression tinged with regret. "**Da Tangxiong** and **Si Tangshu** trained the navy for so long. I thought there would be a grand naval battle."

"Who said that?" Wei Ci disagreed. "The navy had a fierce battle with Liang Wen's navy in Runan, and the commander on the opposite side was still Cui Ting."

"Cui Ting?" I was surprised. "Isn't he Liang Wen's strategist? How could he be in Runan?"

Wei Ci explained, "**Zhangsao** might not know this, but when Liang Wen wanted to leave, Cui Ting initially disagreed. So, Liang Wen left Cui Ting behind and crossed the river himself."

"How did the battle go?" Mao **Shi** asked.

"Of course, we won," Wei Ci said with a beaming smile. "The remnants of Liang Wen's navy are floating all over the river." He sighed, "It's really our clever Ah An. Forget about Boling Qilin (Cui Ting) ships. Ah An's tower ships are the true giants of the water."

Upon hearing these words, I thought of the invitation from Wei An to Cui Ting, and now, Cui Ting had suffered defeat.

In the afternoon, I went to Wei An's courtyard. As expected, he was once again hammering away at a pile of wood, just like he had been doing for over a decade.

"**Zhangsao**." When he saw me, Wei An stopped his work and bowed to me.

"**Sishu**," I smiled, looking at what he was working on, which was still a boat.

"Is **Sishu** still building boats?" I asked. "I heard that **Sishu** had a naval battle with Cui **Gongzi**, and that **Sishu** emerged victorious."

Unexpectedly, Wei An shook his head. "No."

"No?" I was surprised.

“I'm not better than him,” Wei An said. “When Liang Wen attacked the water fort and crossed the river, he took away most of the boats. Then, when **Xiongzhang** feigned defeat, the boats he used to lure the enemy were nothing more than old and battered vessels. When the navy fought in Runan, Cui **Gongzi** had a shortage of ships, while our side had nearly twice as many as his. Even so, Cui **Gongzi** managed to hold out for five days and then surrendered. It shows how truly capable he is.”

I looked at him and found this man genuinely endearing.

"In that case," I asked, "does **Sishu** still wish to compete with Cui **Gongzi**? Where is Cui **Gongzi**?"

Wei An fell silent for a moment, then nodded. "En, I will go find him."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The funeral affairs for Liang Hui are still underway, and the mansion has been busy for several days, so I haven't stepped outside.

One day, when Ah Yuan went to visit Li Shang and returned to see me, she had a somewhat strange expression on her face.

"What happened?" I asked.

"Furen, Jiyuan **Gongzi** has left," Ah Yuan said.

"Left?" I was surprised. "Where did he go?"

"I don't know," Ah Yuan shook her head, but she took out a piece of paper from her sleeve and handed it to me. "This is what he asked Gongyang **Gongzi** to deliver to you."

I stood there, taking it from him. Unfolding it, I found Pei Qian's handwriting with only a few characters.

"Penglai, a thousand miles. Third Month, Jiaodong."
<div class="author-note">
蓬莱千里，三月胶东<br>
Penglai is a legendary land of immortals in Chinese mythology.<br>
</div>

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After Wei Jue returned to Yongdu, despite Wei Jiao's careful nursing, as Wei Jiao had predicted, he passed away a month later.

On the night he passed away, Wei Tan, Wei Zhao, Wei An, and his nephews were all present by his bedside to bid him farewell.

The mourning for Xu **Ji**, which filled the mansion, had not yet been removed, and now it was time to replace it with new mourning attire.

In the coffin, Wei Jue was dressed in grand attire, his eyes tightly shut, and his face pale without a trace of colour. He appeared as though he was peacefully asleep, yet there was an eerie stillness about his countenance, distinct from the slumbering visage.

As I gazed at him, my heart couldn't help but heave a sigh. I left Laiyang, married Wei Tan, and gave birth to Ah Mi. Ultimately, it all began with this man. Though I had often criticised him more than praised, I couldn't deny that I held some respect for him. A formidable figure of his era, he once ruled with authority, even making emperors wary. Yet, in the end, he too would peacefully drift into slumber, bringing an end to all that once was.

I thought of Father and felt a touch of irony.

Both were powerful figures, yet one would receive an opulent burial, while the other had vanished without a trace.

Was it because Father had been too loyal to the emperor, and his hand hadn't stretched long enough (to grab the power above the Emperor's)?

Wei Tan stood in front of Wei Jue's coffin, unmoving for a long while. He had his back turned to me, but the trembling of his shoulders couldn't escape my eyes. I felt a heaviness in my heart too, and gently took his hand. For a moment, he held onto it tightly.

The cries in the hall were ceaseless, and a steady stream of people came to offer their condolences. From the emperor to his subjects, figures of all sizes and ranks in Yongdu paid their respects, leaving no stone unturned.

The Emperor came as well.

In addition to him, Empress Xu also attended.

Although they were not required to observe mourning customs, when they arrived, both of them were dressed in plain white. Wei Tan and the rest of the family paid their respects to them. The Emperor personally burned paper money for Wei Jue, and as the flames danced, they reflected the Emperor's tranquil countenance, making him look even thinner.

**"Da Sima**, grieve as you must," he said to Wei Tan.

Wei Tan remained silent, bowing in gratitude.

This was the first time I had seen the Emperor since Wei Tan's triumphant return. As they faced each other, even though one was standing and the other bowing, there was no sense of hierarchy between them.

After offering their condolences, the Emperor's gaze briefly swept over me, his expression calm and unreadable.

I held Ah Mi in my arms and met his gaze, without a word spoken.

<br>
On the day of Wei Jue's funeral procession, the officials and military officers under the Wei clan were numerous. The procession, filled with mourners wearing mourning attire, stretched for several miles. The sounds of sorrow and music echoed through the skies, continuing until they reached Qingzhuo Plain, thirty miles outside of Yongdu.

After the completion of the forty-nine days of mourning, Guo Furen moved into the Buddhist hall, and Wei Zhao set out on the road to Rongzhou.

Wei Tan had asked him to stay in Yongdu for an extra two months, specifically to attend Wei Jue's funeral. On the day of his departure, quite unexpectedly, he came to see me.

"One wonders what brings **Er Shu** here?" I asked in surprise as I sat in the hall.

In recent days, Wei Zhao had grown noticeably thinner, and the mourning attire only accentuated his slight frame, making him appear somewhat frail.

"**Di,* has come to see **Zhangsao**, to ask about some old matters," Wei Zhao explained.

Old matters? I looked at Wei Zhao. "**Er Shu**, feel free to ask."

Wei Zhao looked at me and asked in a low voice, "How did Xu **Ji** pass away?"

I was a bit surprised. After a moment, I shook my head slightly and said, "When Xu **Ji** passed away, **Qie** was not in the residence. However, on the next day, her body was indeed found in the well. The servants in the residence had a look, and there were no signs of struggle before her death. It seems she took her own life."

Wei Zhao listened, and after a moment, he asked again, "**Zhangsao** mentioned that **Gongzhu** died at the hands of the chaotic troops?"

"**Gongzhu** was killed by Xu **Ji**," I said.

Wei Zhao's face turned pale. After a moment, he lowered his gaze, closed his eyes, and took a deep breath.

"Thank you, **Zhangsao**," he bowed to me, "One will leave Zhi'er in the mansion, and One will have to trouble **Zhangsao** taking care of him in the future. **Di** will take leave now." With that, he picked up his bundle and stood up.

"What are **Er Shu**’s plans for the future?" I asked.

Wei Zhao gave a faint smile, deflecting the question, "**Di** is already a lone wanderer." He shouldered his bag and walked towards the courtyard.

"He's left?" Ah Yuan came in from outside the hall and asked me.

"En," I nodded.

"Will he come back?" Ah Yuan asked.

I didn't answer, just watched Wei Zhao's figure disappear in the direction he left. In my heart, I was thinking about his words just now. 

That figure vanished beyond the door, lonely and cold, bearing a strange resemblance to the last image I had of Xu **Ji**...

<div class="aewoo-ramble">
  <div class="ramble-title">⟡ Aewoo’s Ramble ⟡</div>
  <p>Sigh… Xu <strong>Ji</strong> truly deserved better ending. So did the Princess. Being bound to a cowardly and greedy man like Wei Zhao was nothing short of a tragedy.</p>
</div>
<br><br>
