---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 13: Ruochan"
order: 13
---

When Wei Jue returned with his troops, The Emperor personally welcomed him at the city gate. Although it could be considered a grand occasion, it was just a formality. The real reward with food and drinks was held a few days later. 

One had heard that in the main hall of the Imperial Court, a decree drafted by Wei Jue was stamped with the Emperor’s jade seal. Starting from Wei Jue, the decree was written with densely packed names of high-ranking military officers who had done meritorious deeds (in suppressing DongKuang). Among them, Wei Jue was not rewarded with any title, as the imperial throne can’t be rewarded to him (because he is already the Prime Minister, no higher position could be given anymore), thus he was only rewarded with gold and silver. Wei Tan was bestowed with the title Marquis of Huaiyang, while Wei Zhao was given the title Marquis of Shanyang, and the other densely packed names that was listed was named with numerous unheard titles such as Marquis Ting, Marquis Xiang and Generals.

Wei Tan was elevated into nobility which made me become a **Hou Furen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Wife of a Hou (侯); marchioness"></sup>, but my life in the Wei Residence did not change at all. Wei Tan still resides in the Wei Residence and I still have to serve my parents-in-law and my husband with all my heart. 

Wei Tan would sometimes be at home and sometimes would be away. There were many advisors and generals under Wei Jue, thus there were many discussions in the main hall and Wei Tan would accompany him by his side. As a result, I rarely went to the main hall after their return from the expedition and also did not leave the residence. One either went over to attend to Guo Furen or remained in one’s own courtyard to pass time. 

However, Wei Tan continued to not sleep with me. 

He would usually spend the night at the military camp,  and if it was unsuitable to go out, he would lay out a bed in the outer chamber. 

I was very puzzled and there were several times that I wanted to ask him why, but one was unable to ask because one was too thin-skinned. Wei Tan, on the other hand, continued to act as if everything was normal. Sometimes in the morning, when we came across each other at the outer chamber, he would smile at me very naturally while putting on his clothes, “Morning, Furen.”

Only Ah Yuan knew of  these matters. She cleaned up the bedding for Wei Tan,  and looked at me strangely. 

There was once when Zhou **Shi** came to the residence and pulled me aside to speak in private. She giggled as she told me that among the adult males of the Wei Family, only the Eldest Young Master had no children. Thus the family hoped that I could quickly make an addition to the family.

When I heard those words, I almost vomited blood<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="extreme anger"></sup>. I too wanted to have baby but my husband must also put in effort!

But on the surface, I could only smile to evade the matter. Zhou **Shi** thought that I was embarrassed and showed an ambiguous expression, like we were talking about an extremely interesting topic. 

I did not know when Wei Tan last had intercourse or if he had ever touched a woman before. What frustrated me the most was that I, Fu Jin, was publicly considered as a beautiful Chang'an lady. How could one not even be able to interest one’s husband at all?

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Wei Jue did not go to the banquet held by Lu **Gong** that Zhou **Shi** had mentioned the other day. 

However, since Lu **Gong** after all provided financial aid to the Imperial court, Wei Jue still had to give him some face. He handed over this matter to Wei Tan but on that very day Wei Tan had to patrol over the military camps of the outside city. As a result, I had to attend the banquet alone. 

The residence of Lu **Gong** was indeed lively as all kinds of carriages and horses blocked the street in front of the residence. It was said that Lu **Gong** wanted to distribute porridge, thus almost all of the city’s refugees and beggars had come. They were stopped by the household staff at the entrance. 

It was bustling with activity and I got out of the carriage with great difficulty, before being escorted to the door by my household attendants. 

“Fu Furen.” When **Lu Gong** saw me, his red glowing face was filled with smiles as he stepped down with his wife to welcome me.

“Lu **Gong**, *Live as long as the Nan Mountain*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="a birthday wish; (idioms) long may you live!"></sup>.” I smiled as I congratulate and said, “**JiuGu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Father-in-law"></sup> and **FuJun** are both preoccupied with work matters and could not come. Thus they entrusted me to come over to congratulate and show our hearts.”

“Having the honour of Furen’s presence, brings light to my humble house.” Lu **Gong** quickly and politely replied, his plump body made him seem like he was struggling when he bowed. After finished speaking, he ordered the staff to take my congratulatory gift and let his wife, Wang **Shi**, lead me in personally. 

Lu **Gong** had invited more people than I had imagined as all three courtyards were decorated with banquet items. There were many people like the Wei Family, whose masters were unable to come yet did not want to brush Duke Lu’s face away and thus had let their wives attend instead.

As a result, I unfortunately encountered Yuying again. 

“Ah Jin.” When Yuying saw me, her face was filled with joy, as she came forward, “I was wondering if you will also attend and it was just as expected.”

Her words were affectionate as she held my hands. Her eyes were plastered on the brocade clothes and jewellery I had donned on as she praised profusely. 

I shot a glance and noticed that there were many people, including Zhu **Shi**, who were looking over here. Taking a look at Yuying’s smiling eyes again, I smiled as I said, “It is exactly so. I trust Yuying has been well since we last met.”

Yuying’s smile grew even brighter as she exchanged a few more words before pulling my hand and turned to a few beautifully dressed young women, “Ah Jin, I was talking about you to my friends and they have been admiring you for a long time.”

“Oh?” Looking at her delicate and naive face, I looked towards those young women again. They came over to greet one after another, as their eyes looked at me, and also at Yuying’s proud face, there were some flickers hidden in those shy and ardent smiles of theirs. 

I grew up amongst noble ladies. The small thoughts behind these glances, how can I not understand it?

I greeted each one of them one by one, and waited until I was seated before finally separating from Yuying. 

At the banquet, men and women were seated separately, Lu **Gong** had specially set up a loft for the female guests, and personally escorted by Wang **Shi** to the table.

In terms of age, I was the furthest away from being the most senior person, but in terms of status, I represented the Wei Family, I was undoubtedly the most prominent amongst them. Thus I sat at the first seat below Wang **Shi** in grandiose. 

During the banquet, Wang **Shi** was very attentive and would ask me from time to time if the dishes were to my liking and if I wanted to add more. I answered politely while looking at the table filled with meat and noodles but my heart was thinking about Li Shang’s matter.

One did not know how much meat would be used for such birthday banquets and if Li Shang’s business took off, it would be impressive. 

My heart was itching (because thinking of it), and seeing that no one was around, I asked Ah Yuan in a low voice, “Is there any news from your father?”

Ah Yuan nodded and said, “The news came this morning, and one didn’t have time to tell Furen. Father said that the meat business is going well, and all the livestock that were bought a few days ago was all sold to Lu **Gong**’s banquet.”

When I heard it, I was overjoyed. 

Li Shang lived up to my expectations, and he even had the same idea as me. 

“How much was gained?” I asked hastily. 

Ah Yuan replied, “Don’t know, Father said that it still needs to be clarified.”

I nodded. This was the first business transaction thus I did not care much about whether or how much we had earned. Success was what mattered the most. 

With one heart having been delighted, I ate the meat on the plate with *keen interest and pleasure*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="idiom;with gusto/relish"></sup>, as if it was the most delicious food in the world. After the meal, Yuying took the initiative to come over to chat, as the entertainers began their excellent acting and singing performance, and I had been smiling continuously.

The young women she had befriended were all from Chang'an. Even though their family background was not as good as Yuying’s. They were also married into similar families of officials. Yuying took them to me, seeming very proud and elated. 

I listened as they flattered one another with words, and then I watched as the dancers performed diligently, as I held a wine cup in my hand, there was a sneer smile on my face. There were two dramas in front of me, one was on stage in front of the banquet, and one within the banquet seats. And wasn’t the Wei Family’s welcome of me to enter their doors was the biggest drama of them all?

While thinking about it, I suddenly heard a burst of laughter. 

The laughter came from under the loft, and upon looking through the thin bamboo separator, one could only see the courtyard filled with bright lights and in the middle of the red carpet, there were a few dancers dancing seductively, with their colourful clothes fluttering around like butterflies. 

“Really, here they come again….” When the young women saw it, a look of disgust appeared on their faces. 

Yuying turned her head sharply and said, “Why care about them? *What the eye doesn’t see, the heart doesn’t grieve over*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(idiom) what remains unseen in deemed to be clean"></sup>.” 

I began to understand their reaction. This was the custom in Chang'an. The nobles would feast and turn semi-intoxicated and would like to watch seductive dancing to find amusement. In order to please everyone, such a show of extravagance was indispensable, thus Lu **Gong** had arranged for such enjoyment.

The laughter rang out again and when I looked over, I saw an oily headed fat man sitting beside Lu **Gong** and seemed to have spoken something joyous as he was laughing. There was a charming female in his arms that smiled like flowers.

My gaze landed on the red cinnabar mole between her brows.

The wine cup in my hand almost dropped onto the ground. My expression changed and I lifted the bamboo curtain.

"Ah Jin, what are you doing?" Yuying quickly restrained my hand. 

I turned to her, "That is…"

"Shh!" Yuying's expression froze as she hurriedly motioned for me to keep silent. She looked left and right before lowering her voice as she said, "She is different from us now. You can't interact with her, you can't even look."

"What happened to her?" 

"What else can happen?" Yuying curled her lips, full of contempt. "She opened the biggest brothel in Yongzhou, the Ningxiang Pavillion, and she is now famous." 

There was a burst of laughter from the other side of the banquet. I looked through the bamboo curtain and saw Ruochan sitting beside a luxuriously dressed chubby male, toasting wine with him as she laughed. That man laughed lecherously and I saw his hands holding Ruochan tightly …

The blood in my body turned cold and I was somewhat unable to continue watching as I turned my head around.

My heart was thumping hard, as if that scene was the most inconceivable nightmare.

Ruochan's surname is Chen. Her father was one of the Imperial Physicians, Chen Kang. This position was not considered big in Chang'an, but the Chen Family was also a scholarly family. Ruochan's mother has been a close friend of mine for many years, thus Ruochan and I had been good friends since childhood. 

Children who were born from wealthy families would usually pick up the bad habit of being a little snobbish. Although my family status was not the most eminent, it was still ranked among the top ten reputed clans in Chang'an. Therefore I was very much *a fish back in the water*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(idiom) glad to be back in one's proper surroundings "></sup> within the circle of noblewoman of my age. Ruochan also got along with everyone well, but it was not because of me.

She was beautiful, with a red mole between her eyebrows. Her smiles and gestures were always more feminine than other girls of the same age. She was also kind and could resolve any problems she faced. This earned her the envy of the impetuous group of us children. So much so that we were willing to listen to anything she had to say. 

I remembered that she (Yuying) once had a dream of becoming like Ruochan, and then getting married… Some memories were suddenly evoked, and there was an astringent feeling in one’s eyes. 

I learned about what had happened to Rouchan from Yuying. 

Her father offended He Kui, the male descendants of her clan were all exterminated, while the women were given to He Kui’s subordinates and soldiers. I didn’t know what Ruochan had experience, as I only heard  Yuying said that when she reappeared in front of everyone, she had already become the most famous prostitute in Yongzhou.

Yuying only *sketched in light shade*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="to play down, explain in a brief"></sup> to me the general story and didn’t go into the details. After a while, she turned towards a young woman next to her to chat about the new white jade bracelet on her wrist. The servants shuttled through tables while carrying the gourmet food and fine wine. The melodious sound of singing and the zither, accompanied with all kinds of cheerful talk and laughter of the ladies, it was as if those noises outside beyond the curtain did not exist at all. 

These *natural and man-made disasters*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(idiom) natural calamities added to human calamity"></sup>, I had long learned to keep my face calm at these unexpected things, but upon hearing these matters, my heart still aches dully.

When Chang'an was in chaos, I had already been married off to Laiyang, however I was not familiar with some matters. 

The Fu Clan was tied to the Empress Dowager, and naturally supported Prince Chen. 

I remembered that a few months before my family met with the mishap, the courtyard that Father used to discuss official business was brightly lit all night, and everyone who came in and out of it had a heavy expression. Even my Second Brother, who loved to have fun with me, rarely came to play with me. I tried to make him smile once, but he just sighed and stroked my head. 

I still remember that Ruochan liked Second Brother at that time. Every time she came over, intentionally or not, she would inquire about his matters. And if Second Brother was around, Ruochan’s face would be inexplicably red, and she would be as meek and docile as a bunny. 

A woman who always treated me like a younger sister, a woman who would always hold my hand as we plucked the flowers in the garden secretly, and whenever she smiled, it was as if all the flowers in the world would bloom for her. 

I had never imagine that there would be a day when she would be disdain called a prostitute by the crowd she used to be, in this high hall that she originally belonged to. 

The laughter continued uninterruptedly, I found my ear piercing, and stood up.

“Ah Jin?” Yuying looked at me in surprise. 

“I am a little drunk and will take a walk.” I replied.

Yuying continued, “I will go with you.” With that, she got up.

“No need.” I held her down. “I will be back quickly.” Saying so, I headed out. 

A bright moon hung in the sky. Lu **Gong**’s garden was not big, but it was very exquisite. It was full of flowers of different shade and waterside pavilions. This was not difficult to understand. Lu **Gong** can’t have a house bigger than others but he was wealthy. In order to stand out, he spent a lot of effort on the decorations.

The guest had yet to disperse, the tinkling chatter and laughter on the other side of the loft was just as lively as the countless lanterns under the eaves. In contrast, the flowering trees and the pond in the garden were silent. 

The evening breeze blew slowly as I walked on the long bridge across the pond, watching the falling flowers rippling on the glistening water.

When I was bored in Laiyang, I had imagined what it would be like if I met an old friend from Chang'an and what kind of scene it would be.

Mother had once told me that a female should not be disheveled even in dire straits. Even if her family was impoverished, she must always present herself neatly and tidily, and prevent others from despising herself. 

Now that I recall these words, that was the time when I was not even aware of a hint of pain and suffering. However after I left Chang'an, I had always followed those words and acted in accordance with it. Even if I was not dripping with gold and silver, I would not wear coarse clothes. Even if I fall ill, I would never let myself look haggard. Even though I was not valued by my in-laws, I would never let myself be humiliated. I know that I am still young and that I could become more beautiful. One day I will stand in front of any enemies, benefactors or even those who came to watch from the sideline. I would hold my head high and chest out and look down on them and let them see clearly that even though the Fu Clan was no longer present, Fu Jin was still Fu Jin. 

However, I had not expected that Ruochan would be like this when she reappeared in front of me. I couldn’t even smile like before and ask her, “ Ruochan **JieJie**, have I become more beautiful?”

While I let myself *indulge in flights of fancy*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(idiom) let one's imagination run wild"></sup>, all of a sudden, I heard a “ding” sound, as if something had fallen.

I turned my head to take a look, but a figure already became *the quick-footed that climbed up first*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="(idiom) took the lead"></sup>, picking up the jade pendant I had dropped. 

I was stunned. 

Ruochan was still wearing the gorgeous clothes from the banquet, but under the moonlight, she was glowing with a cold glossy atmosphere. The silk fan on her hand was pure white, covering half of the delicately powdered face. The cinnabar red mole between her brows was the only conspicuous thing. 

“Furen’s jade pendant.” Her voice was soft and indifferent. She put the jade pendant in my hand as she turned and walked away. 

“Ruochan.” I rushed to catch up with her as I grabbed her sleeve.

Ruochan stopped her steps, turned her head, put down the white silk fan and smiled lightly, “I thought that you would be like them, refused to acknowledge me.”
