---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 31: Mediator"
order: 31
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

Legs were injured once again, the carriage weary, and the journey became unbearably arduous.

The people around me have different reactions to my current situation.

Wei Tan still carries me up and down, giving instructions with his hands.

Wei An seemed very happy. During the rest, he came over with a ruler and measured left and right around me. He even took out a piece of wood for me to look at. On it, he used charcoal to draw something that doesn't look like a cart or a bed. This is what he called a 'pushcart'.

As for Ah Yuan, she keeped on chattering. At times, she sadly talks about how I twisted my foot again, and at other times, she curiously asked me how it feels to finally share a room with my husband.

I ignores her and lied on the mattress, pretending I haven't heard anything.

“Furen, you don't know,” Ah Yuan leaned closer and said, “I heard that after you left last night, those courtesans tried hard to persuade and feed (Wei Tan), and Fan Yue even wanted to send a beautiful woman over.”

I opened my eyes and asked, "“You heard? Heard from whom?”

“It was Wang Hui, the attendant of **Da Gongzi**, who said it,” Ah Yuan says. “But guess what happened later, Furen? Fan Yue almost had the courtesans serve **Da Gongzi** for his rest, but he suddenly excused himself and went back to the room.”

I raised an eyebrow, declining to comment. I had already roughly guessed this process.

“Furen, if a woman is sent to your door, she wouldn't be a fool,” Ah Yuan pondered and continued, “So... is **Da Gongzi** the fool one?”

“That's right, who can say otherwise,” I replied.

Sending a woman is nothing but an act of goodwill. If one refuses, it can only be due to two reasons: either unable to accept it or unable to afford it. As for Wei Tan's reason, I do not know. In any case, it wouldn't be for my sake.

“Furen, have you decided to stay by **Da Gongzi**'s side and not leave?”

“Says who?” I asked.

Ah Yuan looked surprised, “But you and **Da Gongzi**… en?”

What'ss inside this young lady head all day long? I glanced at her and said indifferently, “Whether I leave or not, we can discuss it later. **Chengxiang** hasn't defeated Tan Xi yet.”

Actually, last night's conversation was something I planned to discuss with Wei Tan after Wei Jue wins. Of course, if Wei Jue doesn't win, then it would be a different conversation. But unexpectedly, Fan Yue showed up suddenly, sending some beauties. I had to first stabilize Wei Tan's mindset; otherwise, before Wei Jue and Tan Xi even settle their outcome, I would be kicked out the door with no place to cry.

Regardless of anything, I do hope that Wei Jue wins. If he wins, he will have the largest territory and the most population. Moreover, with the emperor in his hands, as his daughter-in-law, both in terms of lifestyle and business, it will be better than going to other places.

That was also the reason why I decided to follow Wei Tan back when we were in Huainan.

Yes, it is a gamble, but isn't life a gamble wherever you go?

Ah Yuan looked at me for a while and then sighed softly, “I just feel it's a pity. **Da Gongzi** treats you quite well.”

Her face turned slightly red, and I knew what she was referring to.

Coming out of Yingchuan today, Wei Tan's behavior was that of a devoted husband. Besides carrying me up and down, he would often ride his horse to check on me while we were on the road. When he spoke, he would lower his head and come closer, creating an intimate atmosphere. Not to mention Ah Yuan, there were times when even I felt my face blush.

“Ah Yuan, do you know Han Guang?” I asked.

Ah Yuan paused for a moment and nodded, “I know. He is Furen's former husband.”

I continued, “Ah Yuan, he used to hold me happily every day. In the morning, he would ask if I was hungry, and in the evening, he would ask if I was cold. When I was slightly unwell, he would care for me attentively, not even allowing me to sit up and eat by myself.” Pausing for a moment, I added, “But when I was sent away, he couldn't even lift a finger to stop it.”

Ah Yuan widened her eyes.

I patted her shoulder and said, “Ah Yuan, **Da Gongzi** is the same. He is a man, just a man.”

Ah Yuan looked at me, nodding her head slowly, seeming to understand and yet not fully understand.

If this were back when I had just gotten married, I would undoubtedly be filled with excitement and romantic feelings. But now, as someone who has been through it, I understand what daily married life is like. A mature man, without concubines or mistresses, only has me as his wife. In the past, with Pei Qian's presence, there was an extra layer of propriety and restraint. But now, both inside and outside, everything is proper and legitimate. Wei Tan's actions, which include embracing and occasional flirtation, can be considered restrained.

I think that perhaps not long from now, I will truly experience the intimacy of the bedroom.

Although I might feel awkward, concepts like chastity and virginity have lost their meaning to me. I have been married for over five years, and my virginity remains intact. If I were to share this with others, even Ah Yuan might find it hard to believe.

In other words, what Wei Tan can do to me is only slightly more than what Han Guang could do. But in exchange, I gain a promising future. Why wouldn't I be happy about it?

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

For three or four consecutive days, the places where we rested along the road were small villages. Times were tough, and the village houses were dilapidated. It was considered fortunate if we didn't encounter rainy weather. In order to make room, Wei Tan no longer slept with me. At night, I shared a bed with Ah Yuan.

It was inconvenient to fetch water on the road, and Wei Tan didn't provide water for soaking my feet. However, he was punctual in changing the dressings on a daily basis. I owed him money for the treatment of my injury, which was caused by Wei Tan himself. Despite that, I felt quite justified in receiving his care.

“We will reach Luoyang in two more days. Endure a little longer,” Wei Tan said to me as he carefully wrapped the bandage around my foot.

“En,” I replied, lying down on the straw mat.

“When we arrive in Luoyang, I'll take you to stay at my old family estate,” he said.

I nodded. Wei Jue had once held the position of the Northern Commander in Luoyang, and their family had a residence there. Judging from his words, it seemed like that old estate held great significance to him.

“Have you ever been to Luoyang?” Wei Tan asked.

“No, I haven't been there,” I replied. After a moment, I added, “But my mother is from Luoyang.”

“Oh?” Wei Tan smiled. “My mother is from there too.”

“One heard that **Fujun** spent the early years in Luoyang?” I asked.

“En,” Wei Tan nodded. “I didn't go to Chang'an until I was fourteen.”

Oh, so he was a rural person<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="someone who lives in a rural or countryside area."></sup> before the age of fourteen.

I thought to myself. Then I calculated again, fourteen years old? That means when he went to Chang'an…

“You were nine,” Wei Tan said.

Those words hit me unexpectedly, like a moderately loud thunder. I was caught off guard and froze, asking, “What?”

“When you count, your eyes would glance to the right,” he said calmly.

The firewood burst into sparks with a "crackling" sound several zhang<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="one zhang = 10 feets"></sup> away.

I looked at him, feeling both astonished and skeptical.

He also looked at me.

“Is that so,” I thought to myself, determined not to show any weakness and forced a nonchalant expression. “How did you know I was counting?”

Wei Tan smiled.

At that moment, a sergeant not far away called out to him loudly.

Wei Tan responded with a word and said to me, “Go to sleep.” With that, he got up and walked over, leaving me lying on the straw mat, utterly confused.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

On the morning of the second day, unexpectedly, a group of soldiers arrived, led by the long-unseen Cheng Mao. He appeared weary, indicating that he had traveled urgently.

“**Gongzi!” He first bowed to Wei Tan, then turned his gaze to me behind Wei Tan and greeted, “Furen.”

Wei Tan maintained a solemn expression and wasted no time on small talk. “What's the matter?”

“**Gongzi**,” Cheng Mao said, “**Zhugong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="master (of a clan); Wei Jue"></sup> and Tan Xi are engaged in battle in Wuzhi, and the situation is urgent. **Zhugong** has instructed me to urge **Gongzi** to return to the camp immediately!”

Wei Tan nodded and immediately ordered a sergeant to prepare light equipment and assign horses. He turned to me, about to say something, but Cheng Mao interrupted.

“**Gongzi**,” Cheng Mao looked at me and continued, “**Zhugong** says if Fu Furen is here, she may follow as well.”

 <br>

The carriage sped along the road, jostling us so much that it was impossible to sit or lie down comfortably. Wei Tan abandoned the foot soldiers and only brought a few followers with horses, following Cheng Mao's group. We hurried as if there were vicious dogs chasing us from behind. After running for hundreds of miles, we changed horses in nearby states and counties, barely taking any breaks.

I was injured, and Ah Yuan accompanied me in the carriage. Wei An said he wanted to join the battle with his father and brothers, and Wei Tan didn't refuse, taking him along on the journey. Perhaps he was the happiest one throughout the trip.

Cheng Mao had already explained why Wei Jue wanted me to go. 

Zhao Jun, a junior historian who served the former Prime Minister during the reign of the late emperor, was personally promoted by my Father. After the Fu clan was exterminated, Zhao Jun became dissatisfied with the faction led by Empress Bian that marginalized dissenting voices in the court, so he resigned from his official position. Later, when Tan Xi rose in rebellion, he issued proclamations to gather intellectuals, and Zhao Jun responded by joining Tan Xi's camp as an advisor.

Cheng Mao told me that Zhao Jun was a talented strategist, highly regarded by Wei Jue. Not long ago, Zhao Jun was captured by the Wei army. Wei Jue tried every means to persuade him to surrender, but Zhao Jun resolutely refused. Therefore, Wei Jue thought of me. I traveled a long distance to act as a mediator.

My marriage with Wei Tan was arranged in a military camp outside the city of Laiyang, so this was not my first time going to a military camp.

However, it was apparent that this camp was much larger than the one I had stayed in before. On the way, I could already see the flags on the camp's gate and the defensive barriers set up around it, exuding a formidable aura.

Before reaching the gate, a group of soldiers and horses came out to greet us.

“**Xiongzhang**!” The one leading the group was Wei Ci, his smile bright.

“Zixian<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Wei Ci's style name"></sup>.” Wei Tan greeted him, asking, “Where is my father?”

“**Chengxiang** is in his tent.”

Wei Tan nodded, and the two of them conversed while riding their horses into the camp.

I peered outside through the fine bamboo curtain and saw rows and rows of tents. Many soldiers were practicing on the spacious open ground, their shouts and commands echoing back and forth.

When Wei Ci noticed Wei Tan carrying me in his arms, he appeared somewhat surprised but quickly regained his cheerful smile and respectfully greeted me, “**Zhangsao**.”

“Zixian.” I nodded in response.

At that moment, a deep voice came from inside the main tent ahead, “Has Meng Jing returned?”

Wei Tan exchanged a glance with Wei Ci before replying, “Yes, **Fuqin**.”

The tent's entrance was quickly opened by guards, and Wei Tan led me inside.
