---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 35: Pushcart"
order: 35
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

Going to Luoyang doesn't require rushing, and since my feet haven't fully healed, I often stop from time to time to go out for a stroll.

Wei An originally wanted to stay by Wei Jue's side to watch the battles, but he was driven back by Wei Jue, so he was feeling somewhat unhappy. He was skilled in two things: machinery and playing dead. Ah Yuan and I spent a lot of effort trying to make him happy, but unfortunately, we failed each time, making the journey quite boring.

Of course, I am not someone who is good at being bored, so while on the carriage, I thought about many things.

In this departure from the Wei camp, I am no longer as anxious as I was when I left Laiyang to get married half a year ago. The attitudes of Wei Tan and Wei Jue have reassured me that I have temporarily gained a stable position within the Wei Family. So, from now on, I should continue to focus on my business affairs.

I have been constantly worrying about Li Shang and the others, unsure if their journey to Jiangnan is going smoothly. Initially, when I left Yongdu to perform *jizu*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Paying respects to the ancestors"></sup>, I had planned to return within a month, waiting specifically for news from Li Shang. But now it's not possible. I have been away from Huaiyang for over half a month, and even if Li Shang and the others return to Yongdu, they wouldn't know where I have gone. I have made up my mind that once I reach Luoyang, I will send a letter back to Yongdu, pretending it's a letter from Ah Yuan for her family and have it delivered to Li Shang's residence. In the letter, I will clearly mention our current whereabouts. If Li Shang has already returned to Yongdu, he will definitely reply; if there is no reply, it means they haven't come back from Jiangnan yet.

Being on the road and traveling by carriage can actually be enjoyable when away from home, but the real struggle comes during the nights when finding a place to rest. In the war-torn areas of Henan, many villages have been abandoned, leaving only a few scattered inhabitants. If one is unable to reach a city before nightfall, finding a dilapidated house to rest in becomes a blessing in itself.

As the sun set in the west, we came across a village during the twilight hours. The nearest city was still several tens of miles away, so we decided to stop and rest for the night.

In the village, there were only two or three households, all belonging to impoverished villagers. When they saw soldiers and horses approaching, they became frightened and hastily took refuge inside their houses, tightly shutting their doors.

Fortunately, the leading sergeant, with his broad experience, approached the front of one household in a friendly manner. After having a conversation, he handed over some rice and grains. Only then did the family cautiously open their door. The sergeant instructed the soldiers to repair the houses for the villagers before it got dark. With a troop of 200 people, Wei An and I were accommodated inside a house, while the others camped outside. The villagers saw that the soldiers posed no threat and even helped with the tasks, so their wariness dissipated, and they were filled with joy.

The soldiers searched amidst the ruins and found a hearth to start a fire for cooking. However, when it was time to eat, they realized that Wei An was missing. After a thorough search, they found him in one household, where he was helping to repair a wooden bed for an elderly man with a limp.

“How come **Si Gongzi** is doing carpentry work?” Ah Yuan whispered.

I smiled and nodded towards the elderly man, saying, “**Sishu**, it's time for the meal.”

Wei An wiped the sweat off his forehead and said, “I'm not hungry, **Zhangsao** please eat first.”

I glanced at the limping elderly man next to us. He already seemed uncomfortable with the presence of so many people, and now he looked even more embarrassed.

“This **Gongzi**,” he gestured to Wei An with a bow, “please go ahead and have your meal. **Lao Sou**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this old man"></sup> can make do with this wooden bed.”

Wei An shook his head, “I'm not hungry.”

I wasn't in a rush. In Wei An's eyes, nothing could compare to the work at hand. I instructed the soldiers to return and left two or three of them with torches to provide light for Wei An to continue his carpentry.

On the way back, Wei An seemed somewhat embarrassed.

“**Zhangsao**, are you hungry?” he asked in a low voice.

“Not really,” I replied.

Wei An remained silent.

“Why did **Sishu** repair that wooden bed?” I asked, “It's not like it's a mechanical task that needs to be done by you. You could have assigned it to one of the soldiers.”

Wei An lowered his head and muttered, “It's not that.”

I glanced at him and asked, “It's not what?”

Wei An looked at me and said, “**Zhangsao**, I initially went to look for wood. But when I saw that elderly man in such a pitiful condition, and I had a hammer with me...” He paused for a moment and continued, “My **Zufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="paternal grandfather"></sup> was also limping in the past. He treated **Xiongzhang** and me very well.”

**Zufu**? I paused for a moment and recalled. The grandfather he mentioned should be Wei Qian, who had held the position of *Taiwei*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Imperial Minister in charge of military affairs"></sup> and retired at the age of sixty.

“Does **Sishu** miss **Zufu**?” I felt a softness in my heart.

“En,” Wei An said, “**Zufu** was skilled in swordplay and he would tell stories.”

I chuckled, “What kind of stories did he tell you?”

“Many,” Wei An replied, “They were all about the wars and struggles among the Seven Kingdoms in the past.”

<div class="author-note">
The “Seven Kingdoms” here refers to the Warring States period (战国时期), when the seven major states: Qi, Chu, Yan, Han, Zhao, Wei, and Qin. They were constantly at war until Qin eventually unified China.
</div>

No wonder he is the father of that ambitious Wei Jue, I thought to myself.

“Oh, really?” My father used to tell me stories about the Seven Kingdoms as well, so I became interested. “Among the Seven Kingdoms, which figure does **Sishu** like the most? The Four Lords? Bai Qi? Oh, you probably prefer Mozi...”

“Lord Longyang,” Wei An responded.

<div class="author-note">
Longyang Jun (龙阳君) was a male favorite of the King of Wei. According to Records of the Grand Historian (史记), he once cried while fishing with the king, fearing that if the king caught a better fish, he would discard him just as easily. The king reassured him and even issued a decree forbidding comparisons of other beauties to Longyang Jun.
Because of this story, “Longyang” later became a euphemism for male same-sex relationships.
</div>

I paused, unsure of how to react.

Me: “....”

Looking around, I noticed that neither Ah Yuan nor the guards showed any signs of surprise on their faces. It dawned on me that they didn't know who Lord Longyang was. Realizing this, I understood that they were unfamiliar with the reference to Lord Longyang.

“**Sishu**,” I felt my smile twitching a bit, and whispered, “Why do you like Lord Longyang?”

Wei An glanced at me and said, “Isn't Lord Longyang good? He has exceptional swordsmanship and possesses both martial and strategic prowess.”

I responded, “Many people possess martial and strategic abilities.”

Wei An scratched his head, “But Lord Longyang has a nice-sounding name, and that's the only thing I remember about him.”

Me: “.....”

<br>

After some contemplation, following our meal, I said to Wei An, “Since **Sishu** feels sympathy for the elderly man's mobility issues, why not add two wheels to the wooden bed and turn it into a cart?”

Wei An replied, “I had the same thought, but we can't find any wood here to make the wheels.”

I thought for a moment and said, “I can offer this pushcart as a gift to the elderly man. What does **Sishu** think?”

Wei An was taken aback for a moment, then thought about it and glanced at my injured foot. He said, “But **Zhangsao** also has a foot injury.”

“The foot injury is almost healed,” I said. “We will reach Luoyang tomorrow, and I won't have to walk much on the way. If I still find it inconvenient once we arrive in Luoyang, **Sishu** can make a new one for me.”

A thoughtful expression appeared on Wei An's face, and after a moment, he nodded in agreement.

“Furen,” Ah Yuan looked at the departing figure of Wei An and asked me with confusion, “Why would we give away the pushcart when there is nothing wrong with it?”

I smiled and replied, “Ah Yuan, do you realize how many people there are in this world who face mobility challenges in the current times?”

Ah Yuan thought for a moment and said, “After years of war and conflict, not to mention civilians, there are plenty of soldiers who have been disabled due to battles.”

I nodded and said, “Exactly. If we can sell the pushcart, it could fetch a significant amount of money.”

“Sell the cart?” Ah Yuan exclaimed, surprised. “But only **Si Gongzi** knows how to make it. Not to mention whether he would agree to it, is it appropriate to involve **Si Gongzi** in business matters?”

That's also my concern. I smiled and said, “There's always a way. Besides, this is just a thought for now. It may or may not happen.”

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

My mother was from Luoyang, but I have never been there.

In the past, Mother often talked to me about the beautiful scenery of Luoyang, the temples, palaces, and lively places. She would mention how the well water there was said to make people more beautiful. As I listened to her, I believed that Luoyang was the best place after Chang'an.

Of course, Chang'an has already turned into ruins, and Luoyang is unlikely to be spared.

The carriage sped across the drawbridge over the moat and rumbled through the city gate. As I looked out of the window, I saw wide streets and neatly arranged houses, showcasing the characteristics of a renowned city. However, many houses showed signs of long neglect, magnificent palaces had lost their roofs, and the high walls bore blackened traces.

“Furen,” Ah Yuan, gazing outside with me, suddenly asked, “I wonder if the two **Yi Furen** and Qiao **Gong** are still in Luoyang?”

I know that in Luoyang, I have two **Yimu**s and one **Jiujiu**, all belonging to noble lineage. However, I have only met them in Chang'an and not in Luoyang.

<div class="author-note">
Yimu (姨母) literally means “mother’s sister“, while Jiujiu (舅舅) means mother's brother. 
Since Ah Yuan is a servant of the Fu, she called this aunt Yi Furen (Yi from Yimu)
</div>

Later on, when the Fu Family encountered troubles, I never saw them again. For me, these relatives, just like the former glory, vanished like smoke carried away by the strong wind, disappearing without a trace.

Fortunately, my mother doesn't need to know about all of this.

I comforted myself in my heart and lowered the bamboo curtain.

Despite having been ravaged before, Luoyang still had a considerable population. As the carriage proceeded with intermittent stops, there was a continuous flow of pedestrians. When we passed by the western side, I noticed a bustling marketplace, teeming with activity and full of liveliness.

The old residence of the Wei Family was located in the northern part of the city, surrounded by other grand residences. The carriage stopped in front of the house, and the household managers and servants were already waiting at the steps to greet us.

I carefully observed those people, and they were all dressed as family members.

<div class="author-note">
When it is mentioned that the people present were "dressed as family members," it means that their attire and appearance indicated that they were part of the household and belonged to the Wei family. They likely wore clothing and accessories that were consistent with the family's style or uniform, distinguishing them as members of the household staff or relatives. This could include relatives, servants, attendants, or other individuals associated with the family who were expected to present themselves in a certain manner while at the residence.
</div>

Even back in Yongdu, I had heard that Wei Zhao had a concubine living in Luoyang named Xu. Now, it seemed she hadn't come out to greet us. It was appropriate, I thought. This  Xu **Ji**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Ji means concubine"></sup>, was not the legal wife, and I wasn't the owner of this house either. If she had come out to greet me without me knowing her name and status, it would have been awkward.

“Greeting, Furen,” the steward bowed to me respectfully and said, “Furen has traveled from afar. The meals and baths are already prepared. Please come in, Furen.”
