---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 37: Luoyang (Part 1)"
order: 37
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

I am not very familiar with **Jiufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="has the same meaning with Jiujiu; mother's brother"></sup>, Qiao Yu. He was busy with his own affairs and rarely visits Chang'an. However, based on my impression, he is a kind person. In comparison, I am more acquainted with **Jiumu**, Ding **Shi**, and my **Biaomei**[modern_footnote][/modern_footnote], Qiao Ti.

<div class="author-note">
表妹(biǎomèi):
Biao means cousin of maternal side (whether on your mother's side, or your father's sister's. 
Mei means younger sister.
So, Biaomei = younger (female) Biao cousin.
</div>

In the past, they would visit Chang'an almost every year and stay at my house.

**Jiumu**, Ding **Shi**, also comes from a prominent family and is very kind to me. Every time she visits Chang'an, she brings many gifts for me. I remember that my favorite silk doll when I was a child was the one she gave me

However, even so, I still didn't like my **Biaomei**, Qiao Ti.

She is two years younger than me, but perhaps due to the fact that my **Jiujiu** is tall and robust, she has always had a similar physique to mine. She likes beautiful things, especially those worn by others. When she first came to Chang'an at the age of eight, she would often show a charming and envious expression in front of her elders. She would say to my mother, “The necklace worn by **Biaozi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older (female) Biao cousin"></sup> is so beautiful, I've never seen anything like it in Luoyang.”

Mother always treated relatives kindly, so upon hearing those words, she would smile and say, “Since Ah Ti likes it, I'll give it to you.” Over the years, Mother forcibly took away many things from me, such as accessories, toys, fragrances, and so on. There was one time when she even wanted the paper in my study. I really liked that paper, with its pristine white texture adorned with petals and orchid leaves, a gift from Pei Qian.

Upon hearing Qiao Ti's request, I glared at her fiercely and said, “No, I won't give it to you.” At that moment, Mother laughed and called me stingy.

I'm not sure if it was because of that incident, but two days later, I unintentionally overheard Yuying and others discussing me and Pei Qian. Qiao Ti was also with them and said with a smile, “I also think Ah Jin **Biaozi** and Jiyuan **Gongzi** are not a good match.”

So, I have never been friendly to Qiao Ti ever since.

Time passed, and the thoughts of that young girl was like a long-forgotten book. When One happened to flip through its pages again, One way of thinking was already different.

“Greetings, **Jiumu**.” At the front door, I bowed deeply to **Jiumu**.

“Ah Jin.” **Jiumu** held me gently, her emotions a mixture of sadness and joy, her eyes filled with tears.

Qiao Ti looked at me, inheriting the refined features of Jiumu's eyebrows and eyes, her gaze filled with scrutiny and caution.

“**Biaozi**.” She walked up to me and bowed with lowered eyes.

“**Biaomei**.” I smiled and returned the gesture.

**Jiumu** held my hand and expressed her emotions once again. I invited the mother and daughter to sit in the main hall and asked Ah Yuan to serve tea.

**Jiumu** glanced at Ah Yuan and said to me, “This servant girl looks familiar, she resembles the daughter of Li **Zhangshi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="steward"></sup>, who used to serve by Ah Jin's side…”

“It is exactly so,” I smiled, “When **Shengnǚ**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="sister's daughter; niece"></sup> arrived in the capital, it happened that the family of Li **Zhangshi** was also there, so we were able to reunite.”

Ah Yuan hurried forward and bowed to **Jiumu**, saying, “Ah Yuan pays respects to **Jiu Furen**.”

**Jiumu** helped Ah Yuan up and smiled at her, saying, “I knew you looked familiar. So, we are old acquaintances after all.”

I told **Jiumu** about how Li Shang had managed to escape the danger back then and how he had left his hometown to return to the Capital Yongdu.

“Fortunately, on that day, when **Shengnǚ** went out to the streets, One happened to encounter Li Huan, the son of Li **Zhangshi**, and that's how One was able to reunite with **Zhangshi**'s family,” I explained.

Jiumu nodded, wiping her eyes, and said, “I am aware of Li **Zhangshi**'s loyalty. In the face of natural disasters and human calamities, it is fortunate that One is able to be reunited. After all, Ah Jin is still a newlywed in the Wei Family, surrounded by unfamiliar servants. It cannot compare to being among familiar faces. Now that you have Ah Yuan, I can rest assured.”

I smiled and replied, “**Jiumu** is absolutely right.”

Then, we started discussing some trivial matters. When **Jiufu** was mentioned, everyone couldn't help but feel sorrowful, and **Jiumu** couldn't hold back her tears, quietly weeping.

“Your **Jiufu** was a man of loyalty and righteousness, respecting the elderly and showing kindness to the young. When the Fu Family faced difficulties, he, along with other ministers, submitted a joint memorial to seek justice for the Fu Family, which angered Empress Bian. He even intended to personally go to Chang'an to save people, but halfway there, the Previous Emperor had already taken action...” **Jiumu** choked up, “For this, your **Jiufu** suffered sleepless nights, unable to inform your **Wai Zumu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Maternal grandmother"></sup>. Whenever your **Wai Zumu** asked about your **Muqin**, he had to put on a brave face and hide the truth. After you married and moved to Laiyang, he wanted to visit you there, but later, Luoyang became embroiled in war, and your **Jiufu** joined Dong Kuang's forces, only to... ” She covered her face with a handkerchief and burst into tears.

“**Muqin**..” Qiao Ti also shed tears, looking at me, trying to comfort softly.

Feeling the sadness in my heart as well, I tried to comfort them with kind words. Once my **Jiumu** had calmed down a bit, I asked, “I wonder how **Biaoxiong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="elder (male) Biao cousin"></sup> is doing? Is he safe and well?”

**Jiumu** wiped away her tears and replied, “Bogong is safe and sound. He is studying at home, focusing on his studies. The Emperor is planning to reinstate the imperial examinations in the capital, and Bogong intends to articipate in the examinations.”

I agreed and said, “It is indeed a great virtue for **Biaoxiong** to have such aspirations.”

**Jiumu** sighed and said, “The Qiao Family is a prominent clan in Luoyang. Now that your **Jiufu** only has Bogong to carry on the family bloodline, he cannot afford to neglect his responsibilities. However, due to the chaos of war, many old acquaintances in the capital have been scattered, and with your **Jiufu**'s absence, there is no one suitable to recommend him.”

I understood **Jiumu**'s implication. She had something to entrust me with.

**Biaoxiong** Qiao Ke, although I have only met him a few times, I remember him distinctly. Though we are not familiar, I recall that he had considerable talent and knowledge. There was one occasion when Father tested him, and he answered with great fluency, earning Father's admiration.

The original intention of the imperial examinations was to select capable individuals for government positions. However, over time, the system became increasingly corrupted, with influential families monopolizing the selection process. During the reign of the previous emperor, even those from noble backgrounds couldn't succeed without a powerful recommendation. In the past, this might not have been difficult, but now the Qiao family is in a vulnerable position, and **Jiumu** has had to seek help from me.

For the first time, I realized that in the eyes of others, the status of being a wife of the Wei Family carried a certain degree of influence and power.

“**Jiumu**'s request, **Shengnǚ** will fulfill it,” I pondered for a moment and said to **Jiumu**, “However, there are some things that **Shengnǚ** must honestly inform you. **Shengnǚ** has only been part of the Wei Family for less than a year, and **Shengnǚ** have spent more time apart from One's husband than together. **Shengnǚ** have been confined to the household and have had no involvement in political matters. But when **Shengnǚ** meets One's husband, **Shengnǚ** will definitely express **Biaoxiong**'s aspirations. **Chengxiang** has always valued talent, and if **Biaoxiong **has such ambitions, there should be no hindrance.”

Upon hearing my words, **Jiumu** held my hand and said, “I am grateful for your help, Ah Jin.”

I smiled and replied, “Of course, it is my duty.”

**Jiumu** sighed and said, “If your **Jiufu** were aware of your intentions, he would be grateful as well, even in the depths of the afterlife.” After speaking, she lowered her head once again to wipe away her tears.

We sat in the hall for a while, and **Jiumu** and I talked about many things that had happened since we last saw each other. Qiao Ti sat beside her, speaking very little. Besides comforting her mother and wiping away tears during the moments of sadness, she mostly maintained a calm demeanor and observed me with her gaze.

After having dinner together, **Jiumu** and Qiao Ti bid their farewells and left. I looked at the sky and felt that today had been quite a long day.

“Furen, **Jiu Furen** is still as eloquent as ever. When she speaks, no one can interrupt,” Ah Yuan exclaimed in awe.

I smiled, declining to comment.

Mother had once described this **Jiumu** of mine as a shrewd person. In the past, I didn't pay much attention to such matters, but today, as we sat together, I began to understand it a bit more. Her visit today was probably more for the sake of my **Biaoxiong**. Nevertheless, even though the Qiao Family is my mother's maternal family, these people are still my last remaining relatives. If I can lend a helping hand, I won't refuse.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Halfway through constructing Wei An's pushcart, things weren't going smoothly. He reluctantly admitted that some parts needed to be sturdy and precise, which exceeded his current level of woodworking skills.

“Then let's put it aside for now. When we return to the capital, I'll find two carpenters to assist **Sishu**. There's nothing too difficult,” I encouraged.

Wei An nodded and then turned to work on various small wooden pieces.

With not many people around in the mansion, the days felt quite dull. There were some old books in the house, but they were mostly official documents. I took one back with me, but after flipping through a couple of pages, I left it on the desk without giving it much thought. Xu **Ji** was also someone with little to do, so during this period, she often kept me company.

In our casual conversations, I learned that she was originally the daughter of a servant who was brought as part of Wu Furen's dowry (Wei Tan's mother). She had grown up in this mansion since she was young. At the age of seventeen, Wei Zhao took her from Wu Furen as a concubine. Xu **Ji** didn't elaborate much when she mentioned these details, and I wasn't aware of the specifics at that time. However, from her manner of speaking, Xu **Ji** showed knowledge and etiquette, without any hint of the subservience typically associated with a servant. Such a beautiful woman, though of humble origin, it was not surprising that Wei Zhao was fond of her.

To pass the time, upon hearing that Xu **Ji** knew how to weave, I even cleaned up the loom that was once used by Wei Tan's mother Wu Furen to attempt to learn weaving from Xu **Ji**, following the teachings of virtuous women as described in books.

As the weather grew colder, news of victories in the northern battles continued to arrive. After the death of Tan Xi, his military forces were divided among his four sons. Taking advantage of the chaos caused by the leaderless crowd, Wei Jue marched north, intending to defeat them one by one. Currently, Wei Jue has already destroyed Tan Xi's third son, Tan Kui, and is now engaged in a battle with Tan Xi's eldest son, Tan Meng, in Youzhou.

At this time, there was sudden movement in the south, specifically in Huaiyang. Wu Zhang, who was critically ill and had no sons, decided to pass on his legacy to his younger brother, Wu Kun.

When I heard this news, I couldn't help but feel unsettled.

Luoyang and Huaiyang are quite far apart, and the news I received was only fragmentary. However, I understood deeply that with the change of power, there would often be behind-the-scenes power struggles and conspiracies. When someone succeeded, others would inevitably suffer. I couldn't help but worry about Pei Qian. Was he safe and unharmed there?

“Furen seems a bit distracted lately,” Xu **Ji** said after I accidentally snapped several warp and weft threads while weaving.

I realized that I had once again lost focus and apologized with a sheepish smile.

“Furen must be tired,” Xu **Ji** looked at the sky outside the door and said, “It's getting late. Furen should rest now.”

I nodded and said, “Very well, we will continue tomorrow.”

Xu **Ji** bowed and took her leave.

Feeling tired myself, I washed up and laid down on the bed, letting out a gentle sigh.

At times, I feel like I have a worrisome fate.

People often talk about cutting off ties when they encounter difficulties, but it's easier said than done. How many people actually follow through with it? Just like me, when I think of Pei Qian's name, I can't help but worry about him. It's not that I still have lingering feelings for him, but I simply can't treat him as someone insignificant.

Perhaps I have something on my mind; I sleep lightly. 

In the middle of the night, I sense some movements in a daze. The night breeze lightly brushes against my neck, as if a door or window is not tightly closed.

As a rough and firm touch grazed my cheek, I suddenly woke up. 

The candlelight that appeared out of nowhere shone into my eyes, making it difficult to open them. When I struggled to recognize the person in front of me, I was startled.

“Awake?” Wei Tan seemed slightly surprised. After a moment, he smiled and said, “My apologies, Furen. It was not intentional.”
