---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 60: Lacquered Carriage"
order: 60
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

　　Echoes were heard on the stage, and everyone looked around. Wei Jue was too far away so I couldn't see his expressions clearly, but I saw Wei Tan and Wei Zhao standing up from their seats.

　　Several people nearby hurriedly stepped forward to intercept, saying, "Yan **Gong&&! What are you doing?"

　　"Yan **Gong** seems to be drunk…"

　　"I'm not drunk!" The person pushed away those who were trying to persuade him, with a red face and angry eyes. He continued to point at the platform, saying, "Wei Jue! You are blackmailing the Emperor, how is this any different from what He Kui did! We are all servants of the Son of Heaven, how dare you seize power and steal the country!"

　　"How dare you be so audacious!" Wei Zhao shouted as he descended the steps. Before his words even fell, two soldiers stepped forward and subdued Yan Fang. Despite his struggles, the soldiers tied a rope around his mouth to silence him.

　　"How dare you, lowly soldiers, to arrest a court official?!" A man stood up from the seats, and as I looked, it turned out to be the scholar Li Chong. He glared at Wei Zhao and said, "Yan **Gong** is an Imperial Censor! Even the Commandant of Justice would need the Emperor's command to detain him!"

　　After this statement came out, a buzz of discussions erupted among the court officials sitting on the seats.

　　"Commandant of Justice?" Wei Ci, who came down from the platform, sneered, and was about to step forward, but was stopped by Wei Tan.

　　"Release Yan **Gong**," Wei Tan said in a deep voice to the soldiers.

　　The soldiers glanced at each other for a moment before finally releasing Yan Fang. As he staggered and spat out a mouthful of blood on the ground, he continued to curse with slurred words, calling them "traitors" and the like.

　　Wei Ci became furious and wanted to move forward, but Wei Tan stopped him.

　　"Yan **Gong** is drunk," Wei Tan said calmly to the people who had just tried to stop Yan Fang.

　　Those people quickly agreed, saying, "Exactly, exactly!" They then managed to calm Yan Fang, who was still talking incessantly, and escorted him away.

　　Wei Zhao stood on the steps, his face alternating between dark and uncertain.

　　Wei Tan then turned his head and glanced at the chief official of the Music Bureau not far away. The chief official was a discerning person, and immediately, lively and cheerful music started playing, covering up the awkward silence from earlier.

　　The scene became lively again, and everyone returned to the festive atmosphere.

　　The noble ladies were all astute, exchanging knowing glances, and no one spoke much in front of Guo Furen. They nonchalantly continued discussing the silk topic they had mentioned earlier. As they chatted, Guo Furen listened, sipping her tea with a lack of amusement on her fair, powdered face.

　　From my view at a distance, I could see Wei Tan and Wei Zhao back at their seats on the dais. It seemed like someone had told a joke, as I could hear Wei Jue's hearty laughter, filled with vigor, echoing beneath the roof.

<br>

　　The banquet and music on the Bì Terrace lasted for the whole day, but the women were not as enthusiastic about drinking and engaging in deep discussions as the men. Fortunately, there was a large boat in Yong Lake, and after half a day of feasting, someone suggested going for a lake cruise, and everyone agreed.

　　Guo Furen's physical strength was already weak, and even though she came dressed for the occasion, by the time they reached the lake cruise, she no longer displayed the same enthusiasm as during the feast. At such moments, One's origin subtly revealed itself. In the past, in Chang'an, boat excursions were activities enjoyed by the nobles, whether admiring willows in spring or lotus flowers in summer. However, small households couldn't afford to buy boats, and renting them was costly and challenging, so not everyone was comfortable with water activities.

　　Yuying and the other high-born ladies on the boat were enjoying themselves, walking around and chatting effortlessly. On the other hand, Guo Furen and the lower background ladies remained seated in the center, not venturing anywhere. Wei Rong tried to look around elsewhere, but Guo Furen didn't allow it, making her pout with boredom.

　　Of course, I wanted to enjoy myself like Yuying and the others, but I didn't want Guo Furen to think otherwise, so I stayed by her side all along.

　　"Ladies from the north like me and others are not accustomed to water. One heard that **Chengxiang** plans to turn Yong Lake into a training ground for the navy?" Lu Furen said, holding onto the wooden railing tightly as she put a candied fruit into her mouth.

　　"That's right," Guo Furen replied.

　　"Is this preparation for a southern expedition? I wonder if it's against Liang Chong or Wu Kun?" someone asked.

　　Guo Furen smiled faintly, "Matters of the military and the state are beyond our understanding as women."

　　"Indeed," Lu Furen agreed, "I get anxious just thinking about war. I'll have to visit the temple another day to pray."

　　The other ladies echoed her sentiments, but as I listened, a sinking feeling washed over me.

　　If Wei Jue intends to attack Wu Kun, then Pei Qian should be involved in the confrontation against the Wei family, as he is still in Huaiyang. The more I think about it, the more uneasy I feel. At that moment, I suddenly caught sight of Qiao Ti looking at me from across. Unlike before, her gaze was no longer subtle but direct, like a starving person staring at food, or perhaps... an enemy.

<br>

　　After disembarking from the boat, Guo Furen claimed to be unwell and asked me to stay while she took Wei Rong back home.

　　The other ladies went sightseeing on their own. **Jiumu** and Lu Furen were engaged in lively conversation, while I toured a famous temple by the water with Yuying and the others. When we came out, it was already dusk. I saw faint candlelights shining from the Bì Terrace, and when I asked the servants, they said the banquet had already dispersed. The other ladies were also heading home, so after bidding farewell, I decided to walk back to see if Wei Tan was still at the Bì Terrace.

　　But before reaching the Bì Terrace, the servant who went to inquire came back and informed me that Wei Tan had left almost an hour ago.

　　"Where did he go?" I asked.

　　"One doesn't know," the servant replied, "They said **Da Gongzi** was drunk."

　　Looking up at the Bì Terrace, I could still hear the music, and the graceful figures of dancers in colorful attire swayed in the remaining sunlight, surrounded by laughter and joy. After a brief moment of contemplation, I asked the servant to stay and take care of things. If there were any updates about Wei Tan, they should inform me at home. With everything settled, I headed towards where the carriages and horses were parked, intending to make my way back home.

　　Today, most of the guests who came to the Bì Terrafe have already left, leaving the open space with only a few carriages. The coachmen led the horses, and when I arrived at my own carriage, I noticed someone standing there, it was Qiao Ti.

　　"**Biaomei**?" I looked at her in surprise.

　　Qiao Ti looked at me, smiled faintly, and said, "**Biaozi** left quite late today. I've been waiting here for a while."

　　"**Biaomei** was waiting for me?"

　　"Indeed," she said, glancing at Ah Yuan and the servants behind me, her eyes shining. "I have some things I'd like to discuss with **Biaozi**, I don't know if it's possible?"

　　I looked at her skeptically for a moment, then turned to Ah Yuan and said, "Step back for now."

　　Ah Yuan nodded and glanced at Qiao Ti before walking away with other servants.

　　With no one around, I gazed at Qiao Ti, and she also looked back at me.

　　"I came to see **Biaozi** because I have something to ask. **Muqin** wants me to marry into the Wei Family, and **Biaozi** is aware of it, is that right?" She pursed her lips and spoke softly.

　　I was prepared, and I was not too surprised to hear this question.

　　"**Jiumu** has indeed mentioned it before," I replied calmly.

　　Qiao Ti continued, "**Muqin** said that if I can't marry **Er Gongzi**, then I should serve **Da Gongzi** alongside **Biaozi**. Does **Biaozi** also aware about this matter?"

　　"Oh?" I looked at Qiao Ti, maintaining a composed expression. "**Jiumu** said that?"

　　Qiao Ti nodded, frowning as she lowered her head. "**Muqin** said **Da Gongzi** will inevitably take concubines in the future, so it's better for me to secure my position before others do."

　　"**Jiumu** has not discussed this with me," I followed her expression, also furrowing my brows slightly. "How can **Jiumu** know that **Da Gongzi** will take concubines?"

　　"**Muqin** said **Biaozi** would agree." Qiao Ti said, "She said that **Biaozi** can't bear children…" Qiao Ti said, then realizing she might have said too much, she covered her mouth, looking at me with a flickering gaze. "**Muqin** meant no harm, **Biaozi**, please don't be angry."

　　The act she put on wasn't very skillful, at least not as good as when I used to pretend to be sick and avoid going to study.

　　I curved my lips into a faint smile, showing magnanimity.

　　"**Biaozi**," Qiao Ti approached, gently holding my hand with sincerity in her expression, "I've heard about this matter, and I also find it inappropriate. **Biaozi** is noble and has never been willing to share what's yours with others, let alone serving one's husband together. Though I have the heart to help **Biaozi** whenever I can, this kind of favor is absolutely unacceptable."

　　"Oh?" I sensed there might be another move, and my tone remained gentle. "**Biaomei**, I appreciate your kindness, but I'm unworthy of it." Pausing for a moment, I continued, "However, I'm afraid it won't be easy to decline **Jiumu**'s kindness."

　　Qiao Ti immediately said, "There is a way to resolve this."

　　"How?" I asked.

　　Qiao Ti looked at me, her eyes unusually bright in the twilight. "One heard that next month, there will be envoys from Yongdu traveling to Huaiyang. I wish to follow them."

　　I froze, as the words "Huaiyang" will linger in my mind for a long time.

　　"Huaiyang?" I repeated for a moment, then asked, "What would **Biaomei** do in Huaiyang?"

　　Qiao Ti's face turned red, as if she had made a big decision. Slowly, she said, "To look for Jiyuan **Gongzi**." Before I could speak, she held my hand tightly and said, "**Biaozi**, listen to me. Even though **Biaozi** is now following **Da Gongzi** and has power and status, I know that in the heart **Biaozi** cannot let go of Jiyuan **Gongzi**. We are sisters, so why not help each other? If I follow Jiyuan **Gongzi**, I will serve him wholeheartedly without hesitation. Let's fulfill our feelings for each other, and in the future, we can both have happiness and prosperity. Wouldn't it be a beautiful tale?"

　　I didn't know what expression I had on my face as I looked at her, and for a moment, I was speechless.

　　I have been keenly aware of Qiao Ti's thoughts on Pei Qian since we were little, otherwise, I wouldn't have hated her so much. But now, when she said it to me personally, I didn't rush to scratch her face like I imagined before.

　　It feels ridiculous, yet I can't figure out what to laugh about. It's like a shiny lacquered box that, from the outside, makes people wonder, but when opened, it turns out to be filled with a pile of insignificant, trivial things.

　　It seems that Pei Qian is indeed a sought-after prize. Qiao Ti, who has been eyeing him since before, has finally made up her mind and boldly claimed that he is no longer mine.

　　After a while, I slowly regained my composure and asked, "Isn't **Biaomei** afraid that I might tell **Jiumu** about all this?"

　　Qiao Ti hesitated for a moment, looking at me with a slight change in her eyes.

　　"If **Biaozi** informs **Muqin**, it would suit her intentions perfectly," she quickly regained her composure. "**Muqin** would bring up the idea of me entering **Biaozi**'s household."

　　I suddenly felt sorrow for **Jiufu** and **Jiumu**. They have a son like Qiao Ke, whom even Wei Tan admires, but have a daughter like Qiao Ti, who seems so thoughtless.

　　"My **Xiongzhang** won't like you," a voice suddenly interrupted before I could speak.

　　Both Qiao Ti and I were startled and turned to look. We saw Wei An inside a carriage, lifting the curtain to reveal his sleepy face. He rubbed his eyes and glanced at Qiao Ti, saying, "You're not as pretty as my **Zhangsao**."

　　Qiao Ti was even more incredulous, her eyes widening, and her facial expression was as colorful as the patterns from a dyeing vat.

　　"You..." She stammered and then looked at me again.

　　Though I felt uneasy as well, I managed to compose myself and thought it was time to take control of the situation.

　　"**Biaomei** should return back," I glanced at Wei An and said to Qiao Ti, "As for today's matter, let's consider it as if it was never mentioned."

　　Qiao Ti's panic subsided slightly, but her face turned even redder. She didn't dare to look at Wei An and just nodded in response. She forgot to even pay her respects and quickly walked away, keeping her head down.

　　Her hurried and embarrassed figure made me look on, feeling a mix of amusement and sympathy. Turning my gaze to Wei An, he had already come down from the carriage, his eyes bright as he looked at me.

　　Despite the awkwardness, Wei An's words just now strangely made me feel in a good mood.

　　"One would appreciate it if **Sishu** doesn't mention what happened just now to others," I said with a smile.

　　"En," Wei An replied shortly.

　　"Is **Sishu** here to rest after drinking?" I noticed a hint of alcohol and asked.

　　"En," Wei An said, "I got drunk, and **Xiongzhang** brought me out."

　　"Oh?" I was surprised. "Where is Fujun?"

　　"There," Wei An raised his hand and pointed at my lacquered carriage.
