---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 62: Shàngsì (Part 1)"
order: 62
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

<div class="author-note">
上巳(Shàngsì) is a traditional Chinese festival. It is also known as the Double Third Festival, as it falls on the third day of the Third Month. During this festival, people celebrate by participating in various activities like enjoying spring scenery, visiting temples, and holding special ceremonies to pray for good fortune and blessings.
</div>

I didn't see how Ni Rong was arrested. I only learned the general idea from the discussion among Zhou **Shi**'s and others.

Since Wei Jue's migraine relapsed, all his daily meals and medications have been personally taken care of by Ni Rong. Wei Jue loves to eat lamb, and there is a special sheepfold in the mansion for raising sheep. On the day of the incident, the leftover medicine dregs were poured into the sheepfold by the servants. After the sheep consumed it, they unexpectedly foamed at the mouth and convulsed to death.

The servants were greatly shocked and quickly reported the incident to the master. Wei Jue was just about to take the herbal soup, he narrowly escaped death.

Ni Rong was immediately arrested, but he stubbornly insisted that he was being framed and refused to admit any wrongdoing.

Under Wei Jue's rage, he threw Ni Rong into prison and subjected him to severe torture, but Ni Rong still insisted that he was innocence.

"Perhaps Ni Rong is indeed innocent," Mao **Shi** said, "It has been many days, and nothing has been extracted from him. Although he was responsible for preparing the medicinal soup for **Chengxiang**, he wasn't the only one involved in its preparation. Maybe someone else added the poison."

"It's hard to say; perhaps it was Ni Rong after all. Let's hope that the heavens protect **Chengxiang** and reveal the truth," Zhou **Shi** said.

"Do you not find this whole incident suspicious from the beginning?" Zhu **Shi** shook her head. "We have been married into this household for many years, but have you ever seen **Chengxiang** so irritable during his illness? He even refuses to be attended by Guo Furen but allows only Ni Rong to approach?"

After these words were spoken, the few of them exchanged knowing glances, and a quiet understanding settled among them.

I have been silent all along, listening to all of this, and I also find Zhu **Shi**'s words reasonable.

There are quite a few doubts in this matter, and coincidences are everywhere, which actually makes people think more.

If Ni Rong really wanted to poison, he could have directly added the poison to the herbal soup instead of cooking it together with the medicine dregs. Feeding the medicine dregs to the sheep also seems strange; why would anyone use leftovers to poison? Medicine is medicine, and no one would use medicine dregs to save on fodder for the sheep. The most significant suspicion is that if I were to plot against someone, I would choose the method that ensures my safety. As a physician, Ni Rong would know how to use milder toxins gradually to make it appear as if Wei Jue died naturally due to illness. Yet, he used a poison that could kill a sheep in one go. Even if he succeeded, he wouldn't escape suspicion. There's no such foolish physician in the world.

Amidst the private discussions among the crowd, it didn't take long before the news of Ni Rong's confession came. This matter was like a massive stone falling into the heart of the lake, causing a tremendous upheaval in Yongdu.

Ni Rong admitted that he was acting on someone's orders, and surprisingly, the mastermind behind it all was Zhao Jun. The co-conspirators included Xing Da, the infantry colonel<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="步兵校尉(bùbīngxiàowèi)"></sup> the Duke of Fuyang, Ji Quan, and the newly recognized Imperial Uncle<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="皇叔(huang shu); the one that is distantly related to the Emperor"></sup>, Liang Ren. According to Ni Rong's confession, these individuals conspired, waiting for Wei Jue's death. When the time came, Liang Ren would block the city gates and lead the army to surround the Wei Residence, killing the entire Wei Family. Xing Da would incite the soldiers to support the Emperor.

This matter can be summarized in just a few words, but its danger is truly shocking. If Wei Jue were to die suddenly, the Wei Family’s children and nephews would undoubtedly rush back to the mansion. If Zhao Jun and others took advantage of the situation to act, it would likely lead to a bloodbath.

Among them, of course, I am also included.

Ni Rong suffered excessive torture in prison and died without giving any testimony. Wei Jue immediately dispatched people to arrest the co-conspirators. Zhao Jun, Xing Da, and Ji Quan were all in the capital city, while Liang Ren had already fled when Ni Rong was arrested. Upon investigation, dozens of conspirators from the military and the court were implicated. Wei Jue showed no mercy and executed the masterminds and their entire families, while accomplices from the secondary roles faced collective punishment, involving more than 500 people.

At that moment, fear spread among the people. On the day of the executions, cries echoed through the heavens. Zhao Jun, Xing Da, and Ji Quan continued to curse vehemently until their last moments of life.

At that time, the letter containing the Emperor's blood oath, which Zhao Jun showed me, was not found during the search. However, the palace was still unsettled. Ji Quan's daughter entered the palace two years ago and was given the title *Guiren*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="贵人(guìrén)- (lit. means Noble Person), a high-ranking imperial concubine"></sup> after giving birth to the eldest son of the Emperor early this year. Due to this, Ji Quan was also granted a noble title (Duke). Now that Ji Quan committed a crime, it also brought calamity upon Ji **Guiren**. It is said that she wept bitterly to the Emperor, and in the end, she took her own life by hanging herself with a three-foot white silk cloth.

When I heard about these events, I couldn't help but feel a chill down my spine.

"Annihilation of an entire clan," "hanged," "beheaded"... Whenever these words appear, they always reopen the most painful part of my heart, revealing those deeply buried memories that still linger.

Though I haven't been involved in this matter, it is not entirely unrelated to me.

In the beginning, I was able to persuade Zhao Jun to surrender due to Father's relationship with him. As for Xing Da and Ji Quan, their families have served in the court for generations, and they also followed Father and supported Prince Zhen. Whether it's success or failure, Wei Jue initially arranged for Wei Tan to marry me, taking advantage of Father's reputation to win the support of many scholars. But now, those who are fighting against him are also from the same group of people.

You haven't been involved, so what is there to fear? A voice in my heart consoled.

Amidst palpitations, I suddenly self-mock. Even if I was truly involved, there's nothing to fear. There's only me left in the Fu Family to be exterminated, and even if there were more, Wei Jue would end up destroying himself.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After the bloodshed and turmoil, the Shàngsì festival swiftly arrived.

Following the old customs, on the Shàngsì Festival, the Emperor led the people from the palace (the harem and servants) and common people to the waterside for spring outings. The palace's people collected orchids and iris flowers, made small bouquets, and the Emperor would bestow them upon the companions as a symbol of purification. After establishing the capital in Yongzhou, the purification ritual was moved to the palace garden. Wei Jue would partake in this joyful activity with the Emperor every year as a sign of harmonious ruler and subject relationship.

But this year, with the incident involving Zhao Jun, Wei Jue claimed to be unwell and didn't go, and Guo Furen also stayed at home. Wei Tan has many responsibilities to attend to, so going to the palace for the purification ritual has become solely my responsibility.

On the day of Shàngsì, I got up early and searched through the clothing chest for quite some time before choosing a dark-colored garment with a blue top and red lining. While I was selecting accessories in front of the mirror, Wei Tan stood behind me and watched for a moment, then suddenly said, "The green jade with leaves looks better."

I was puzzled, so I looked at him in the mirror and then at the clothing chest. After a moment, I finally understood. He was referring to a green jade hairpin with dangling leaves ornaments.

The green jade with leaves… I couldn't help but feel both annoyed and funny, this illiterate person.
  
<div class="author-note">
note: not that he's illiterate, she just means he's using literal words to describe the hairpin.
</div>

Before I could reach out my hand, Wei Tan took the hairpin in his hand and examined it.

"Hairpin?" he asked.

I nodded.

Wei Tan smiled and gently held my chin, turning my head towards the mirror. In the reflection, we both could be seen. He carefully focused on my hair and slowly inserted the hairpin among the strands.

His movements were clumsy, as if he was afraid of hurting me. He was handling it with utmost care. I stared at him, and the morning light cast a soft glow on his face, even softening the usually sharp edges of his eyebrows, eyes, and nose. The window was partially open, allowing a gentle breeze to flow in from outside, dispersing the warmth around my neck.

After fixing the hairpin, Wei Tan looked in the mirror and asked, "How is it?"

"En... it's a bit slanted," I replied, glancing at the mirror.

"Crooked?" Wei Tan furrowed his brows slightly, looking puzzled as he examined it from top to bottom, and then he reached out to adjust it.

I suddenly felt a bit uncomfortable and grabbed his hand, pulling it down. "No need, it's fine like this," I said.

Wei Tan looked at me for a moment and then smiled.

"After I finish my tasks, I'll come to pick you up," he said, leaning in, and a gentle warmth brushed against my lips.

Ah Yuan and the two maids were still tidying up nearby, and my face suddenly felt hot. Wei Tan, on the other hand, seemed content, smiling at me as if he had successfully pulled off a mischievous prank as he turned around and walked out the door.

<br>

It had been a long time since I last entered the palace. As I rode in the carriage, speeding down the palace road, I felt that the place was even more desolate compared to my previous visit. The wind carried a damp and chilly coldness, hitting me head-on, without a hint of warmth.

Even so, I didn't feel uncomfortable. The jingling of the palace bells echoed, and it seemed like the warmth of those hands still lingered on my body.

I gazed outside the carriage, but my mind kept replaying the scenes from before I left the room; the two of us in the mirror, the hand that pinned the hairpin for me, Wei Tan's smile... Stop thinking about it! I lightly knocked my head against the carriage wall, trying to chase away those images.

"Furen..." Ah Yuan was startled, staring at me wide-eyed.

"It's nothing," I knew I had lost composure, so I quickly acted as if nothing happened and resumed my proper sitting posture.

Feeling embarrassed in my heart, I realized that indeed there have been too many misfortunes recently, to the point that even Wei Tan, that rogue, starts to feel familiar and comforting to me…

The purification ritual had not yet begun, and I got off the carriage in the palace garden. I greeted the noblewomen who had arrived earlier one by one. Neither the emperor nor the empress could be seen. I overheard a few noble ladies talking, mentioning that Empress Xu was in the warm pavilion by the waterside.

Most of the women who came today, I only felt like I've seen them before, and only a few of them were truly of high status and reputation. After exchanging pleasantries with them, I still didn't see the Emperor's arrival. Upon seeing the lush green willows by the water, I decided to take a leisurely stroll with Ah Yuan.

The spring day was warm and pleasant, and many early arrivals had already tired themselves out from strolling. Women, adorned with hairpins and holding fans, gathered in small groups, sitting or standing among the shade of trees and flowers.

As I passed by a pavilion, I overheard a few women engaging in discussion.

"Have you heard? Ji **Guiren**'s prince has been adopted by Her Majesty the Empress (Huanghou)."

"Oh, really? **Huanghou** has a son of her own now..."

"Shh."

One of them noticed me and hurriedly spoke up to interrupt their conversation. The women's expressions froze, and they all felt awkward.

I nodded and smiled at them, as if I hadn't heard anything, and continued walking forward. The birds chirped, and there was a moment of silence around. I could feel the suspicious glances directed at me from behind. Thanks to Wei Jue's favor, in the eyes of others, I am a daughter-in-law of the Wei Family. They spoke carefully in front of me, fearing they might cause trouble.

Daughter-in-law? Thinking of Wei Jue, I couldn't help but feel ironic.

I didn't like the prying and scrutinizing gazes from the crowd, so I walked with Ah Yuan towards a secluded area. Once we passed by a waterside pavilion, the voices of the people were no longer audible.

Suddenly, I saw a person standing ahead, and their appearance looked familiar. After a moment, I recalled that it was Huang Shao, the attendant of the Emperor. He was always by the Emperor's side whenever I met the Emperor.

"Furen," Huang Shao noticed me and greeted with a bow.

"**Shizhong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="侍中(shìzhōng)-attendant"></sup>," I also stepped forward to return the greeting, but my eyes couldn't help but glance behind him. As expected, several yards away, someone was sitting by the stream, fishing. Although dressed in simple clothes and a bamboo hat, I couldn't mistake that figure, it was the Emperor.

"Furen," Huang Shao looked hesitant, "**Tianzi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="The Son of Heaven (The Emperor)"></sup> has been unwell recently, Furen…"

"Who is it?" Before he could finish speaking, the Emperor's voice came calmly.

Huang Shao quickly turned around and said, "**Bixia**, it's Fu Furen."

The Emperor turned his head, and our eyes met. After a moment, he faintly smiled and set down the fishing rod in his hand, as he said, "You've come."

"**Bixia**," I walked towards him, about to bow in front of him. However, as I glanced at his face, I froze on the spot.

After not seeing him for several months, the Emperor's face had become much thinner, with faint dark circles under his eyes. The bamboo hat covered half of his head, but his temples were exposed, revealing a few strands of gray in what used to be his jet-black hair.
