---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 63: Shàngsì (Part 2)"
order: 63
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

"Is it very unsightly?" The Emperor asked with a faint pursing of his lips.

I looked at him, opened my mouth, but I didn't know what to say.

The Emperor is a gentle and even-tempered person, never inclined to extremes when facing issues. However, he also possesses an innate pride, and now, seeing him in this state, one can imagine the kind of suffering he has endured.

"Not unsightly," I managed to squeeze out a smile, glanced at the water's surface, and changed the subject, "**Bixia** also enjoys the pleasure of fishing in humble attire?"

"Fishing allows for tranquility, simplicity fosters detachment," the Emperor turned his head and spoke slowly, "A calm mind is needed to cleanse one's thoughts."

I remained silent, gazing at his profile. His features still looked youthful, but there was a deep sense of melancholy and weariness.

After a while, I whispered, "**Bixia**, please take good care of your health."

"Take care?" The Emperor smiled, but there was a bitter tinge around his lips. "**Zhen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="朕(zhèn) - I, the sovereign; used only by the Emperor"></sup> can't even protect a woman."

Seeing him like this, my heart also felt desolate. I recalled the past when I had no place to go, and the Emperor had lost his mother. We both sought refuge in the Empress Dowager's palace. We empathised with each other's pain, and I could somewhat understand his suffering.

I turned my head and looked behind me. Huang Shao and Ah Yuan stood several zhang (1 zhang ≈ 3.33 metres away, and there was no one else around.

After a moment of hesitation, I gently placed my hand on the Emperor's shoulder, just like when we comforted each other while crying after the Empress Dowager's passing.

The Emperor didn't shy away or turn around. After a moment, he looked up and took a deep breath.

I could feel the tremors suppressed in his chest.

The stream flowed gently beneath the green stones, carrying a few pink petals that had drifted downstream. They twirled and danced in the water, rising and falling before being carried away to the other end of the stream.

We remained silent for a while, but suddenly, I heard voices approaching. I quickly withdrew my hand and turned my head. Over by the waterside pavilion, a few figures were coming our way. As they passed a cluster of trees, I could see clearly that it was Empress Xu and several palace maids.

"**Huanghou**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="皇后(huánghòu)-Your Majesty (towards the Empress)"></sup>," Huang Shao bowed.

Empress Xu's gaze turned in our direction, pausing for a moment.

"Greetings, **Huanghou**," I had prepared myself and approached, bowing calmly to Empress Xu.

"Furen has arrived," Empress Xu's voice was calm, but she didn't pause, walking past me and bowing to the Emperor. "**Bixia**, everything is ready, and the guests have arrived. We can proceed with the purification ceremony."

The Emperor sat on the stone chair, unmoving.

Empress Xu's voice was gentle as she said, "Everyone are now only waiting for **Bixia**. **Bixia** still needs to return to the palace to change clothes before proceeding to *qifu*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="祈福(qífú)-to pray for good fortune"></sup>."

"*Qifu*?" The Emperor remained calm as he picked up the fishing rod and took a small fish off the hook. After observing it for a moment, he gently released it back into the water. "My eldest son has just lost his birth mother, and the funeral has not been conducted yet. What's the use of *qifu* now?"

"**Bixia**!" Empress Xu's voice suddenly turned low and carried a warning tone. She glanced at me from the corner of her eye, as if to caution me.

The Emperor turned his head to look at her, then at me. A sardonic smile appeared on his thin face.

"Huang Shao," he called as he put down the fishing rod and stood up. 

Huang Shao quickly approached and bowed, "**Bixia**."

"Hurry back to the palace to change clothes." 

Huang Shao complied. 

Empress Xu's expression softened again as she said, "**Qie** will assist **Bixia**..."

"No need," the Emperor interjected calmly and walked away along a small path.

The figure disappeared behind the flowers and trees, and before long, only the murmuring stream and the sounds of birds remained around.

Empress Xu gazed in that direction, seeming somewhat tense, but after a moment, she turned to me with a composed expression.

"I heard that Furen came alone today," she said.

"Indeed," I replied.

Empress Xu gazed at me for a moment before suggesting, "The purification ritual is about to begin. How about Furen and I taking a stroll, enjoying the spring scenery?"

With only one path leading back to the original spot, and since Empress Xu offered, I couldn't lose my composure in front of her. I nodded and said, "**Qie** is honored." 

Empress Xu gave a faint smile and turned to walk ahead.

The palace maids led the way, and I followed Empress Xu closely, walking slowly along the path adorned with colorful stones. The scent of flowers and flowing water was refreshing and moist. Neither of us spoke, and I didn't dare to initiate a conversation. I simply gazed at the scenery in the imperial garden, fully immersed in "enjoying the spring."

Since that early morning at Mount Mang, I haven't had a chance to be alone with Empress Xu again. Wei Tan assured me that he would clear things up with her, and I decided not to pry further. It seemed like both of us were following a rule – I had my past with Pei Qian, and he had his with Empress Xu. Whatever happened before, we wouldn't interfere with each other's affairs. Wei Tan never asked me about Pei Qian, and I never asked him about Empress Xu. Even if we caught glimpses of each other's past, we knew better than to approach those sensitive topics and simply avoided them.

I am not afraid of Empress Xu. Although she holds a high position as the Empress, her power is not even comparable to Guo Furen's. Even if she has a history with Wei Tan, she cannot enter the Wei Family’s household, which means she cannot affect my status.

Even though I feel open-minded, every time I see Empress Xu, I still can't help feeling a bit strange. I can't engage in friendly conversations with her or handle the situation as effortlessly as I do with other noblewomen. It's not entirely my fault; even at her most amiable, Empress Xu still wears a smile with a hint of scrutiny, and the rest of her demeanor remains a mystery that only she knows…

"I remember in the past, Furen often visited the palace and had a close friendship with **Bixia**," Empress Xu suddenly said.

Unsure of her intentions behind the remark, I replied, "That is true."

As she slightly turned her head, the dappled sunlight played on her exquisite face. She said, "I heard that when Furen got married, it was **Chengxiang** who made the decision."

Is she finally going to mention Wei Tan? I looked at her and smiled, "The details of that matter are intricate, and **Qie** is not aware of all the specifics."

Empress Xu seemed to have not heard, as she gently brushed her fingers over the petals of a white paulownia tree by the roadside. "I remember at that time, **Chengxiang** originally intended to choose a princess<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="公主(gōngzhǔ)-Imperial Princess; daughter of an Emperor/in this case, the current Emperor's sister"></sup> who was yet unmarried to be his daughter-in-law. However, when he arrived at Laiyang, he immediately changed his mind and chose Furen." She looked at me and whispered, "Does Furen know why?"

I was surprised to hear this as it was something I had never heard before. The late Emperor had many children, and there were several princesses waiting to be married in the Imperial Palace, which I was aware of. However, I had already thought through the reasons why Wei Jue chose me as his daughter-in-law countless times. If Empress Xu was trying to awaken something in me, her efforts might be in vain.

"**Chengxiang**'s kindness, **Qie** was also terrified back then," I replied.

As I looked at her, she wore a strange smile on her lips.

"**Chengxiang** is a shrewd and ambitious figure, viewing everyone as pawns in his eyes, subject to love or abandonment based on the circumstances," she said, her gaze deep and her voice gentle like a breeze. "Does Furen understand?"

The silence stretched between us as we locked gazes, and all around us was stillness.

“**Huanghou**.” A smiling voice came from ahead, and I turned to see several women approaching, full of joy.

Before we knew it, we had already walked outside. 

Empress Xu's face regained its dignified expression as she accepted the greetings from those women.

A middle-aged woman who looked familiar smiled and said to me, "We couldn't find Fu Furen just now, and we were looking for her. It turns out she was with **Huanghou**."

I smiled faintly and replied, "Indeed."

<br>

The Emperor changed into a new outfit, looking neat and tidy, and the weary appearance he had before was completely gone.

He received the bows and greetings of his subjects and walked with Empress Xu among the crowd, enjoying the spring scenery. The palace attendants had already prepared fragrant herbs (vanilla), and the Emperor personally distributed them to the people.

When it was my turn, the Emperor looked at me and handed over a bunch of orchids wrapped in papyrus leaves, saying, "Furen is like orchids."

I lowered my head and accepted them, thanking him, "Thank you, **Bixia**."

Amidst the lively crowd, laughter and joy filled the air, dispelling the somber atmosphere of the palace. After the play and amusement, everyone gathered near the winding stream, enjoying wine and composing poetry. The Emperor was surrounded by courtiers, holding his wine cup while attentively listening to their discussions, his face radiating a genuine smile without any trace of worry.

As the feast continued until the afternoon, the guests who came to enjoy the gardens were now intoxicated and tired. They dispersed one by one, and returned.

I hesitated to leave, as I recalled that Wei Tan said he would come to pick me up. I didn't want to miss him if I left too soon.

On the pavilion where everyone enjoyed the wine and festivities, the Emperor had consumed quite a bit of alcohol and was now showing signs of being drunk, leaning against the table with a hidden pillow. The surroundings were left with only palace maids and eunuchs, and Empress Xu sat beside him, personally brewing tea to help him sober up.

"Ah Jin." The Emperor saw me and smiled with a hint of haziness. He picked up a wine cup and raised it, saying, "Come, let's drink!"

"**Bixia** shouldn't drink any more." Empress Xu took the wine cup from him.

The Emperor looked at her, his expression darkening for a moment, but after a while, he slowly started to smile again.

"Ah Jin, **Zhen** married a virtuous empress," he said, reclining on the couch, tapping the table as if keeping a beat, with a smile that seemed both a sigh and a chuckle. "A virtuous empress!"

Empress Xu's face was half red and half pale as she looked at him. 

Just as she was about to speak, suddenly, a eunuch hurriedly ran over, shouting, "**Bixia**! **Bixia**! **Chengxiang** has entered the Palace!"

Upon hearing this, everyone was startled. 

"**Chengxiang**?" Empres Xu rose from her seat in an instant. 

"Yes!" The eunuch gasped for breath and said, "He has just entered the Anqing Gate!"

I listened attentively, also feeling puzzled. Since Wei Jue claimed to be unwell and stayed at home, why would he come to the palace at this time?

"**Bixia**!" Empress Xu turned to the attendants behind her, but the Emperor seemed oblivious, leaning against the couch.

"Someone come," he flicked his sleeves as he stand up and said, "Go back to the Palace, **Zhen** want to rest,"

Empress Xu's face changed, and she stood in front of him, whispering, "**Bixia**, what are you doing?"

The Emperor, however, remained indifferent and sneered, "What? **Chengxiang** is coming to disturb **Zhen**'s peaceful sleep, and **Huanghou** is aiding him?"

As the words fell, a powerful voice full of anger rang out, "**Bixia**'s banquet is lively, **Laofu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this old mean"></sup> has just arrived. Intending to disperse already?" 

I looked over, and my heart trembled in response.

A black steed galloped forward, carrying a man adorned in a golden crown and brocade robe - it was Wei Jue. He actually dared to ride his horse through the Palace, coming to a halt a few zhang away before leaping down.

With no one daring to stop him, Wei Jue strode forward in his brocade robe.

Both Empress Xu and the Emperor remained still, standing in the pavilion and watching him as his arrival caused their expressions to stiffen slightly. 

Wei Jue's face betrayed no emotion of joy or anger; he scanned the surroundings and then caught sight of me.

"**Jiushi**" I bowed and as I lowered my head, I caught a strong smell of alcohol.

No one dared to ask why he didn't bow to the Emperor, and as they locked eyes, the atmosphere felt tense and stifling, causing my heart to pound in my chest.

Out of nowhere, Wei Jue suddenly unsheathed his sword with a sharp 'clang'. 

The sudden action startled everyone, and I saw the Emperor and Empress both take a step back, with the Emperor's face turning pale.

"What does **Chengxiang** mean by this?" The Emperor's voice sounded nervous.

Wei Jue, however, smiled and lifted the tip of the sword, flicking a golden goblet on the table.

"Is **Bixia** enjoying the banquet today?" he asked.

After a moment, the Emperor replied, "One thoroughly enjoyed it."

As Wei Jue laughed, his voice grew louder. Suddenly, he flicked the golden goblet into the air, and with a swift strike of his sword, the goblet split into two with a resounding 'clangx as it hit the ground.

"While **Chen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="臣(chén)-your subjecy [a form of self-address used by a subject (an official) when speaking to a ruler]"></sup> was enjoying Oneself at the mansion today, One unexpectedly found an item in Zhao the traitor's residence. One has brought it to present it to **Bixia**!" Wei Jue's words carried a hint of hostility as he pulled out something from his sleeve and threw it at the Emperor's chest.

The Emperor caught the item, and as he looked at it, his face turned ashen.

I, too, felt as if thunder had struck me. Even from two zhang away, I could clearly recognize the white silk, and the dark red writing on it had turned black, it was the Emperor's blood letter!

"An incompetent ruler!" Wei Jue angrily shouted, pointing his sword at the Emperor's chest, "Can you recognize this item?!"

"**Jiushi**!" Without much thought, I hurriedly stepped forward to intervene. However, before I could stop it, a figure had already stood between the two.

"**Chengxiang** is discerning!" Empress Xu blocked the Emperor behind her, her voice trembling slightly, "His Majesty the Emperor has always praised **Chengxiang**'s loyalty and righteousness. This edict must be a forgery by the traitors!"

"Forgery?" Wei Jue sneered, "**Laofu** can certainly recognize His Majesty's handwriting! And the imperial jade seal on the edict, where did it come from?!"

"Zhao Jun conspired with Liang Ren to breach the palace restrictions and forge the Emperor's letter and jade seal," I stepped forward and said, "The rebel faction intends to use the forged edict to issue orders across the land. But **Jiushi** is astute and quick to quell such plots. From **Erfu**'s humble perspective, this edict was left in the mansion to lure **Jiushi** into conflict with the Emperor and place you in an unjust position! **Jiushi** is a hero of our time, how could one fall for the schemes of wicked men?"

I said it all in one breath, but I saw Wei Jue's gaze turn cold and sharp like a blade.

Feeling a prickling sensation on my back, I looked into his eyes and urged, "**Jiushi**, please think carefully."

Wei Jue remained unfazed, but he moved his sword forward.

I could almost hear the sound of my heart pounding. Empress Xu gazed at Wei Jue, not stepping back but holding onto the sword's tip. Her voice was low and tremulous, "What Furen said is true. **Chengxiang**, please judge clearly."

The deep-red blood oozed from her palm, staining the snowy-white cuff of her sleeve.

I looked at the Emperor, who was staring at Empress Xu's hand, his lips turning pale.

"**Fuqin**!" At that moment, Wei Tan's voice echoed from below the pavilion, and upon seeing him, I felt a tremendous sense of relief.

Wei Tan approached in a few strides, his gaze sweeping over the scene, seemingly grasping what had happened.

"**Fuqin**," he firmly held Wei Jue's arm and said calmly, "The origin of this letter is dubious. If **Fuqin** wishes to verify its authenticity, may ask the Emperor."

"Oh?" Wei Jue's expression remained indecipherable as he looked towards the Emperor.

The Emperor's face turned as white as paper, and I could see his hand tightly clenching under his sleeve.

"This is indeed a forged edict by Zhao the traitor, and his intentions are punishable," his voice remained flat.

Upon hearing his words, I couldn't help but breathe a sigh of relief.

"**Fuqin**," Wei Tan looked at Wei Jue.

Wei Jue stared at the Emperor for a moment and then smiled, sheathing his sword. He shook his sleeve, took two steps back, and bowed politely to the Emperor, speaking with a friendly tone, "There have been continuous discussions in the court lately, and false rumors have unjustly accused loyal and righteous officials. **Chen** deeply felt the injustice. Today, One has come to the palace to present this evidence to **Bixia**, hoping that **Bixia** will make a fair judgment."

The Emperor remained expressionless, saying, "**Chengxiang**'s loyalty and integrity bring comfort to Us."

However, Wei Jue responded, "Zhao Jun, the treacherous rebel, dared to forge an edict. **Chen** requests to punish him according to the law and extend the penalty to his nine generations!"

The Emperor's gaze suddenly became fierce, and I noticed Empress Xu gripping his hand. He glanced at her, and with a slightly choked voice, he said, "As **Chengxiang** wishes."

Wei Jue then displayed a satisfied smile, looking composed as he scanned his surroundings, stating, "Today, Shangsi Festival, **Chen** came to the palace without offering the purification offering. **Chen** requests **Bixia** for the necessary materials."

Huang Shao, who was standing nearby, promptly had the fragrant herbs brought forth.

The Emperor took a bundle and looked at Wei Jue.

Wei Jue bowed, raising both hands. I couldn't help but think that if the herbs were sturdier, the Emperor might have just thrust them through Wei Jue's skull.

However, he only paused briefly and placed the herbs in Wei Jue's hands, saying, "**Chengxiang**, be well."

Wei Jue beamed with delight, saying, "Thank you, **Bixia**." With that, he adjusted his attire and swaggered away toward his horse.

"Let's go back," Wei Tan's voice suddenly sounded beside me.

I looked up, meeting his dark gaze.

"En," I nodded.

We bowed to the Emperor and Empress and bid farewell without saying much. As we reached the bottom of the pavilion, his warm hand clasped mine, and I realized that I was trembling all over. Wei Jue had already gone far ahead.

I turned back to see the Emperor still in the pavilion, gently wrapping a handkerchief around Empress Xu's injured hand.

However, she had turned her head slightly, her eyes fixed on our direction, unmoving.
