---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 64: Newcomer"
order: 64
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

　　Upon returning home, Guo Furen summoned both me and Wei Tan to the main hall. She appeared anxious and asked Wei Tan, "I heard that **Chengxiang** suddenly stormed into the palace during the banquet with a drawn sword. Upon his return, he looked displeased, and no one dared to approach him. What actually happened?"

　　Wei Tan and I exchanged a glance, and he reported, "**Muqin**, don't worry. Some incriminating evidence was found in Zhao Jun's residence, and **Fuqin** entered the Palace to present it to the Emperor."

　　Guo Furen looked at him with a mix of belief and doubt, nodding slightly, "I see." 

　　Wei Tan asked, "One wonders where **Fuqin** is?"

　　Guo Furen replied, "**Chengxiang** was drunk before went out and upon his return, saying that he felt a bit dizzy, so he's resting in his room." Afterward, she regained her composure and turned to me, asking, "Did **Shao Furen** have any words with the Emperor and Empress while in the palace today?"

　　Not just words. I replied, "The Emperor and Empress both wished **Jiugu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's parents"></sup> good health and gave fragrant herbs as gifts." After saying that, I presented the fragrant herbs I brought back.

　　It seemed Guo Furen wasn't particularly interested in those items. After a brief look, she exchanged some pleasantries with us and then let us leave.

　　Returning to the room, as I changed my clothes in front of the dressing table, my mind still lingered on the events at the Palace just now.

　　It was indeed perilous at that moment. If that sword had actually struck… My heart shudders at the thought of it. However, I believe he wouldn't have done such a thing. Although Wei Jue holds immense power in the court and in public, assassinating the Emperor would have consequences he might not bear. Apart from the potential backlash from other influential figures, many officials in the current court come from loyal families devoted to the Emperor. With Wei Jue's recent actions against Zhao Jun and others, while people may not speak out, there could be countless individuals secretly resenting him. If the Emperor were to die by Wei Jue's hand, it might lead to a multitude of situations like Zhao Jun's. Even if Wei Jue manages to suppress the unrest with his cunning, the people in this realm value legitimacy, and he would lose his commanding authority.

　　All of this is something that Wei Jue cannot bear; he wouldn't be foolish enough to attempt becoming an emperor in this manner. Therefore, today's incident was likely Wei Jue using the aftermath of Zhao Jun's case to show his strength and intimidate the Emperor into being more cautious. Being drunk was probably just a way to end the situation better.

　　What an old *thief*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="贼(zéi) could also means traitor; crooked, wicked, evil, furtive; crafty; sly; cunning; deceitful"></sup>. I silently cursed, but I couldn't help reflecting on my own actions earlier. While I did sense Wei Jue's bluff, I defended the Emperor impulsively. This step could be seen as giving Wei Jue a way out, but from his perspective, my defense of the Emperor might not be viewed as a good thing.

　　"Everyone in his eyes is just a pawn..." Empress Xu's words echoed suddenly.

　　"What are you thinking about?" Wei Tan's voice sounded from behind me at that moment.

　　I snapped out of my thoughts, and as he walked into the room, he glanced at me. "You changed into an outer robe but didn't put it on. Why are you standing by the dressing table?" 

　　"Was just about to put it on," I hurriedly replied, picking up a clean outer robe and wearing it. As Wei Tan also needed to change, I went up to him, unfastened his belt, adjusted the width of the outer robe, and then helped him put on the new one.

　　As I was fastening the belt, Wei Tan suddenly held my hand. 

　　"Still so cold?" he furrowed his brows slightly.

　　"It's because One didn't put on the robe promptly earlier," I disguised my feelings with a smile and gently withdrew my hand from his grasp.

　　Wei Tan looked at me without saying a word.

　　"In the future, if you need to go to the palace again, I'll accompany you. If I'm busy, you can decline the invitation," Wei Tan said after a while.

　　I looked up at him.

　　Is this his way of teaching me to protect myself? I sighed bitterly in my heart. Behind each person, there are circumstances and trade-offs. Being caught between the Emperor and the Wei family is already a predestined fate, one that I can't change by avoiding it.

　　"**Qie** understand," I replied, not wanting to brush off his good intentions, and I finished tying his belt with a light smile.

<br>

　　During dinner, Wei Jue arrived at the main hall to dine with everyone else.

　　To my surprise, when he saw me, he looked as usual and showed no sign of displeasure.

　　After discussing military matters with Wei Tan for a while, Wei Jue looked at me and smiled, saying, "Today, **Laofu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="老夫 - old man"></sup> was reckless and impulsive after drinking, which startled His Majesty. Fortunately, Ah Jin was there to advise me; otherwise, One might have committed a grave mistake, and it would be too late to regret."

　　He took the initiative to mention it, so how could I dare to neglect it? I quickly lowered my head and bowed, saying, "**Erfu** deeply sorry for offending **Jiushi**. One feels very ashamed."

　　Wei Jue smiled and waved his hand, "My **Erfu** is virtuous and capable; so there is nothing wrong with it."

　　After these words, everyone was happy, and they proceeded to enjoy their meal, not discussing the matter further.

<br>

　　Perhaps because my thoughts were too heavy, I didn't sleep well that night.

　　I had a terrible nightmare. One moment, I dreamt about Mother, and then suddenly, Father and elder brother appeared. I playfully interacted with them, but when I turned around, they were all gone, and the house became empty and eerie, sending chills down my spine. All of a sudden, I heard someone weeping in a corner of the room. It was the Emperor when he was young, dressed in mourning clothes, choking in his sobs as he told me that the Empress Dowager had passed away.

　　I approached to comfort him, and the Emperor kept staring at me. Suddenly, his eyes turned blood-red, and blood started flowing from them, it was hideous and terrifying.

　　I screamed loudly but was shaken awake by someone.

　　Opening my eyes, I saw Wei Tan holding my shoulder, so close in the darkness.

　　"Had a nightmare?" he asked, his voice hoarse from waking up.

　　I gazed at him for a while until my heart gradually calmed down.

　　It was just a dream... I comforted myself, but my body felt cold, covered in cold sweat.

　　Wei Tan didn't say anything; he lit a lamp and brought me a change of clothes. After extinguishing the lamp again, he stretched his arm to embrace me. "Sleep," he said softly.

　　Despite being in his embrace, I couldn't fall asleep. My head buried in his chest, I listened to the steady and strong heartbeat. Although it was comforting, my heart was filled with inexplicable anxiety and reluctance.

　　"Fujun," I hesitated for a moment before speaking softly, "If one day, **Chengxiang** no longer favors me…"

　　"Don't think such nonsense thoughts," Wei Tan interrupted before I could finish, readjusting his position while still holding me close. His voice was low and soothing, "Sleep."

<br>

　　My worries are not unfounded.

　　Within two days, Guo Furen gathered all the women in the household and delivered a heartfelt speech. Her words naturally revolved around the matter of Zhao Jun and others plotting against Wei Jue, emphasising that Wei Jue's position in the court was not secure. She urged the women to unite and support him at home.

　　In the end, her gaze gently swept towards my direction, and she said, "Since we have entered the Wei Family, we should prioritize our husband's family and not have our hearts set on others, lest we stray from our responsibilities."

　　I understood that her words were aimed at me, but I responded with an indifferent expression, as if nothing was amiss, just like the other women.

　　It was quite unfortunate that on that very day, a guest arrived at the household.

　　The Prefect of Yingchuan<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="郡守(jùnshǒu)-senior provincial official"></sup>, Fan Yue, had always been on good terms with Wei Jue. He visited Yongdu under the pretext of inquiring about Wei Jue's health, and Wei Jue was delighted. That evening, he arranged a banquet at the residence to entertain Fan Yue.

　　Last year, when Wei Tan and I returned from Huaiyang, we passed through Yingchuan, and we had a brief encounter with Fan Yue.

<div class="author-note">
He was the man who present a dancing girl to Wei Tan in front of Fu Jin. (in Chapter 29)
</div>

　　"One hopes Furen is well." Fan Yue greeted us with a warm smile.

　　"**Qie** is well, thank you Fan **Gong**," I replied politely, returning the greeting.

　　Fan Yue also exchanged greetings with Wei Tan, Wei Zhao, Wei An, and others. He brought several local specialties from Yingchuan, and each female member of the family received valuable silk textiles as gifts, including me.

　　Even though I still didn't like this man, everyone in the household seemed to be charmed by him, including Guo Furen, and laughter filled the banquet. During the feast, Wei Jue and Fan Yue engaged in lively discussions about various matters in the world, entertaining the crowd with their witty banter, which prompted continuous laughter.

　　Wei Tan was also familiar with Fan Yue, engaging in pleasant conversation and witty remarks. Even though I knew that the purpose of the banquet was to create a harmonious atmosphere, I couldn't help but feel a bit displeased. So, I put a heap of celery in his bowl, which he hated the most.

　　After Wei Tan noticed it, he raised an eyebrow and glanced at me. I returned the look with a half-smile.

　　During the banquet, Wei Jue arranged for talented performers to entertain the guests. Halfway through, Fan Yue smiled and said, "In One's residence, we have recently acquired a new dance performed by our household entertainer. It's called 'Falling Geese'<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="落雁(làoyàn)-Falling wild goose"></sup>, a dance that was passed down from the time of Emperor Hui of the previous dynasty. Today, One presents it to **Chengxiang**."

　　Fan Yue smiled and nodded in response, clapping his hands three times. A group of performers with musical instruments entered the hall and took their seats below the stage. After a moment, the sound of tinkling bells filled the air as a graceful woman with a slim figure walked in. She wore a simple white skirt around her waist and her steps were as graceful as swaying willows. Her makeup was delicate, akin to the beauty of spring flowers.

　　I looked at her, my gaze fixated.

　　I had seen this woman before; she was the entertainer who performed during my visit to Fan Yue's residence last year. I couldn't help but glance at Wei Tan; he was holding a wine cup, seemingly enjoying the music, and the flickering candlelight made it difficult to tell where his attention was focused.

　　The woman's dance was graceful and enchanting, with golden bells tied to her wrists and ankles, creating a clear and melodious sound as she moved. Her captivating smile and supple figure resembled a willow branch, and every movement she made exuded an alluring charm.

　　After the dance concluded, Wei Jue laughed heartily and clapped his hands, "Indeed, it was marvelous! Fan **Gong** truly excels in the art of entertainment, leaving us all envious!"

　　Fan Yue also smiled and replied, "**Chengxiang** is too kind. It's just a way to find some leisurely pleasure." Afterward, he turned to the entertainer and said, "Biyao, come forward and greet **Chengxiang**."

　　The woman responded softly and gracefully, approaching Wei Jue, and bowed, saying, "Greetings, **Chengxiang**."

　　Wei Jue looked at her, his eyes full of scrutiny as he assessed her.

　　"Biyao," he smiled, "Is that your real name?"

<div class="author-note">
碧瑶(bìyáo)-green jade, precious jade
</div>

　　The woman lowered her gaze and softly replied, "Replying to **Chengxiang**, Biyao is the name given by **Zhugong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Master; title used to refer to the head of a clan/ family, by the people of the clan (either family member or servants."></sup>."

　　Fan Yue stroked his beard and said, "**Chengxiang** might not be aware. This girl is the daughter of Ren Shu from Bingzhou, and her original name was Jun. During the rebellion led by He Kui, Ren Shu rose up in revolt but died in battle, leading to his family's downfall. One took this girl into One's household, treating her as One's own and providing her with careful guidance."

　　Treat her as his own and guide her carefully, is teaching her to be a courtesan? I took a sip of tea, and a cold smile formed in my heart.

　　Wei Jue nodded and continued to look at the woman. "So, she is from a prominent family."

　　"Fan **Gong** is benevolent. One wonders how old this young lady is?" Guo Furen suddenly asked.

　　"Eighteen years old," Fan Yue replied.

　　"Oh?" Guo Furen smiled, her gaze falling on me. "Isn't she the same age as **Shao Furen**?"

　　I was secretly startled in my heart and raised my eyes.

　　"Ah Jin?" Wei Jue also looked over, and after a moment, he smiled and said, "Ah Jin is twenty-one this year, three years older than this lady."

　　Fan Yue smiled and said, "Last year, **Da Gongzi**  and **Shao Furen** passed by One's residence, and also witnessed this lady's dance. They praised her greatly. **Mou** had intended to present Biyao as a gift to **Da Gongzi** , but unfortunately, the journey was too hurried, and didn't get the chance to do so."

　　I felt anger rising within me, that old ignorant man!

　　But suddenly, I felt a firm grip on my hand beneath my sleeve. I looked to the side, and Wei Tan was smiling lightly, his expression unchanged, but his gaze was intense and focused.

　　"Oh?" Guo Furen, at the head of the table, smiled warmly and said to Wei Jue, "Fan **Gong** has shown such kindness, and this lady also comes from a distinguished family. Why not grant her this opportunity?"

　　"Thanking **Muqin**," Wei Tan said with a clear voice, "But **Er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="This son"></sup> is ashamed that One hasn't established oneself yet, dare not take a concubine for the sake of pleasure."

　　"Taking a concubine is a means to secure heirs, not an indulgence," Wei Jue waved his hand, but his eyes turned to me with a smile, "Ah Jin, agree with this?"

　　I looked at him, feeling my blood slowly congealing in my veins.

　　The conversation suddenly took a sharp turn, targeting my weakness, leaving me taken aback.

　　Wei Jue's gaze carried a smile, yet it held a hidden pressure. This cunning old fox had thrown me a coercion, with implicit meaning—whether I agreed or not, I had no choice but to comply.

　　"**JiuShi**'s words are indeed correct," I made an effort to curl my lips into a smile, hearing my voice sounding calm and distant.

　　Wei Jue's face was beaming with a smile as he instructed the household servants, "Spread the word, prepare Mengjing's side chamber and arrange it for the newcomer."
