---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 66: Roof Beam"
order: 66
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

After the greetings were done, Guo Furen asked me to stay behind alone.

"Ren **Ji** is new here. **Shao Furen** is her *zhumu*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="主母(zhumu)-female master/matriarch"></sup>, will need to show guidance to all matters," she said amiably.

I smiled and replied, "**Erfu** understand."

Guo Furen looked at me and held a teacup in her hand, asking, "I heard that **Da Gongzi** did not spend the night at the newcomer's place last night?"

So that was what she wanted to ask.

I replied, "That's right, Fujun said he needs to rise early today, so he will visit the newcomer another time upon his return."

Guo Furen's expression remained unchanged as she nodded and said, "**Da Gongzi** is weary from his duties, and **Shao Furen** takes care of him attentively. Everyone in the family can see it." She smiled and continued, "In the past, when **Da Gongzi** came of age, the world was in turmoil. He accompanied **Chengxiang** on various military campaigns, which delayed his marriage and having heirs. Since **Shao Furen** entered this household, **Chengxiang** has expressed his desire for a grandchild on several occasions. It's a matter of great urgency and unavoidable. If Ren **Ji** serves **Da Gongzi** and bears a child in the future, **Shao Furen** will become the *Dimu*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="嫡母(dímǔ)- legal mother; term of address used by the children of a concubine for their father's official wife"></sup>. Women living together can easily foster jealousy and discord, but **Shao Furen** has always been sensible and understanding. I need not say more. I only hope for the inner courtyard<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="后室(hòu shì)-the inner quarters or the back chambers of a household,the part of the house where family resides."></sup> to be harmonious, so that while **Chengxiang** and **Da Gongzi** handle matters outside, we will have a peaceful mind."

I coldly chuckled in my heart. Competing for favor? When Fan Yue offered Ren **Ji**, it was originally for Wei Jue. Why did Guo Furen mention me at that moment then?

"**Erfu** will always remember **Gushi**'s teachings." I responded with an obedient expression and a gentle tone.

As soon as I came out from the hall, I saw Ren **Ji** standing in the corridor. Upon seeing me, she gracefully approached and greeted, "**Shao Furen**."

"What's the matter, Ren **Ji**?" I asked in surprise.

Ren **Ji** lowered her head and said, "**Qie** has no particular reason, just waiting here for **Shao Furen**."

Her submissive demeanor is somewhat pleasing. However, at the moment, I have no desire to deal with her and would rather she leave on her own and act presumptuously, so that I can have some peace and quiet.

"So it is like that," I smiled, saying no more, and headed towards the direction of my courtyard.

Throughout the way, Ren **Ji** remained silent and followed obediently. Many servants greeted me as we walked, and I noticed some of them casting glances at Ren **Ji** while paying their respects.

I knew that this matter must have already sparked numerous discussions among the servants. As for myself, after going through last night and this morning, my emotions had gradually settled. I paid no attention to them and returned to my room.

In the past, when Wei Tan was not around, I could freely go about my daily activities and pass the time casually. However, now that Ren **Ji** is here, things have changed. Guo Furen warned me to get along well with her, so even if it's just a pretense, I have to talk to her to avoid giving others a reason to gossip.

Since I have to do it, I might as well make it more significant. After returning to the courtyard, I instructed the servants to invite Zhou **Shi**, Wei Rong and others to join along.

With so many people in the room, there will be enough distraction, and I won't have to worry about feeling awkward.

"I heard that Ren **Ji** is from Bingzhou?" Zhou Shi took a cup of tea from Ren **Ji** and smiled as she spoke.

<div class="author-note">
Taking a cup offered by someone is a symbol of receiving one's greeting
</div>

"It is exactly so," Ren **Ji** answered softly. "Both **Qie**'s parents were born in Bingzhou."

"Who else is left in **Ji**'s family?" Zhu **Shi** asked from the side.

Ren **Ji** replied, "There's **Qie**'s two elder brothers."

"Oh?" I asked, "Where are **Ji**'s two elder brothers now?"

Ren **Ji** replied, "Both elder brothers are serving as officials in Yingchuan."

So it was like that. I recalled Fan Yue's old cunning face and sneered coldly in my heart.

"Why does Ren **Ji** speak in such a soft and timid voice? I can barely hear you," Wei Rong curiously glanced at her.

Mao **Shi** chuckled, "Ren **Ji**'s way of speaking is that of a true lady. **Xiaogu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's little sister"></sup> should learn from her."

Wei Rong looked unimpressed and said to Ren **Ji**, "**Ji**'s dance was quite good the other day. How about dancing again today?"

After these words came out, it led to a subtle exchange of glances among the people present. Zhou **Shi** smiled and said, "Ren **Ji** is now the concubine of **Da Gongzi**, not a professional entertainer."

Ren **Ji** hurriedly said in a soft voice, "Today, **Qie** hasn't dressed up, and there's no accompanying music, so it's inconvenient to dance. However, **Qie** has a pipa and can play a tune for **Nǔjun**."

Wei Rong looked at me.

How can I dampen the mood? I smiled and said, "Sure, **Ji** can play."

Ren **Ji** responded and excused herself to get the pipa. Before long, she returned, holding the instrument, sat in the room and tuned the string gently. After a brief moment of silence, she raised her hand and began playing the pipa.

When I was young, I also wanted to learn a musical instrument, and Mother arranged for a skilled musician to teach me. Unfortunately, I naturally lacked interest in sitting still and practicing diligently. I abandoned it before even mastering the basic five notes.
<div class="author-note">
五音(wǔyīn)-five notes of the ancient Chinese five-tone scale: 宫, 商, 角, 徵, 羽
</div>

However, from a young age, I have been exposed to music and know how to appreciate it. In my opinion, Ren **Ji** played the pipa quite well, with skilled techniques. Yet, perhaps due to being anxious, it lacks the harmonious rhyme.

In the time of two cups of tea, a short melody has already been played.

It was not easy for Zhou **Shi** and the others to comment first (as they need to observe Fu Jin's attitude towards Ren **Ji**), and I understood the situation. I smiled and lightly clapped my hands.

"Ren **Ji**'s dance is exquisite, and even her performance is captivating" Zhu **Shi** commented.

Ren **Ji** humbly replied, lowering her head, "**Qie** is just a novice, revealing One's incompetence."

The ladies chatted leisurely in my room until afternoon. 

After they bid their farewells, I felt tired and asked Ah Yuan to pour tea. But before I could give the instruction, Ren **Ji** took the initiative to pour the tea for me, holding the cup with both hands in front of me. 

Ah Yuan's expression showed some displeasure. 

I glanced at Ren **Ji**, took the tea cup, and asked, "**Ji** has been accompanying me for quite a while. Do you feel tired?"

"**Qie** is not tired," Ren **Ji** still had her eyebrows lowered, and spoke softly.

I took a sip of tea. Since we met today, she has been respectful and careful, making sure not to show any flaws. It's not surprising, as she was sent to another family and holds a low status with no one to rely on. If it were me, I would also clutches my tail all the time. I didn't intend to trouble her, so I said, "I want to rest for a while, you can go back to your room."

Ren **Ji** lifted her eyes and glanced at me, only for a moment, but I didn't miss the inquisitive meaning behind it.

"One respectfully obeys," Ren **Ji** bowed to me and then left.

"Why let her rest?" Ah Yuan walked over, a bit displeased, and whispered, "If it were me, I'd make her stand by the couch holding an incense burner until you wake up, let teach her the meaning of harshness first."

I gave her a funny look, and said, "There's no need for me to teach her harshness . Also, she is a concubine, so you must not loose your manner in front of her, do you understand?"

Ah Yuan nodded in agreement.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Although my state of mind has somewhat relaxed, in the household, I still feel quite uneasy. It's either seeing Ren **Ji**'s respectful face or encountering the speculative glances of servants and other ladies in the residence.

So, when Ruochan discreetly mentioned that she was going to Qionghua Temple, I didn't hesitate and immediately asked for leave from Guo Furen. The temples in the Western Mountains are well-known for fertility prayers, and when Guo Furen heard that I wanted to go, she didn't stop me.

Ruochan is still the same as last time, sitting on the stone and brewing tea, appearing relaxed and carefree.

"I heard that **Da Gongzi** has taken a concubine," she said directly as soon as I sat down without beating around the bush.

"That's exactly so," I replied, taking the tea she handed me and taking a sip.

Ruochan looked at me and suddenly smiled, saying, "Is the frowning and troubled face all because of a concubine? If you don't want her to stay, just come up with a little scheme, frame her with a charge, and then expel her from the household."

I was taken aback and glanced around before glaring at her. "Keep your voice down."

Ruochan looked indifferent, showing no concern.

I was already accustomed to her astonishing remarks, so after a while, I sighed and said, "I also didn't expect it? She was pushed into the household by my parents-in-law." With that, I briefly explained the situation to her.

Upon hearing my explanation, Ruochan furrowed her brows. After I finished, she smiled lightly, "Guo Furen comes from a concubine background, she and you are not on the same route," she said, sighing. "You legal wives always think about being a loving couple and having virtuous traits, but those who become concubines have to think about so much more."

I didn't argue because it was indeed true. If Guo Furen hadn't intervened back then, Ren **Ji** would probably have become Wei Jue's concubine instead.

"You don't have to feel sad," Ruochan continued, "If we talk about freedom, I am much freer than you all." She blinked her eyes, somewhat self-mockingly, "But I can't even count as a concubine."

I looked at the tea in my cup without saying anything.

After a while, I asked, "If you could marry Gongyang **Gongzi**, and have to give up all you have now, would you do so?"
　　
Ruochan replied without hesitation, "I wouldn't."

I then asked, "If it were you, and found the parents-in-law detestable, what would you do?"

Surprised, Ruochan looked at me, and a glint of interest flashed in her eyes. "You want to leave?" 

I neither confirm nor deny, "I'm asking you."

Ruochan brushed the tea leaves into the boiling water, set down the bronze bowl, and said, "Listen to me. Nowadays, nowhere is as safe as Yongdu. Besides, **Da Gongzi** treats you well. If you leave, it will be a total break of the bond of gratitude. Are you willing to do that?"

I fell silent.

If this statement was made a few months ago, I would have said without hesitation that there was nothing I couldn't let go of.

But now, I couldn't bring myself to say it.

Regarding Wei Tan, my complain towards him remains as abundant as ever. He is a rascal, doesn't speak seriously, and always carries a bit of rogue charm when he smiles in front of me. However, just like how people get addicted to drinking, I have grown accustomed to being with someone like him day and night, having fun during the day and being together at night. Moreover, when I think about someone else taking my place and experiencing these days with him, I can't remain calm.

This matter, I don't know whether it's good or bad.

Since the incident on the Shangsi Festival, I have indeed considered a route of retreat, and my question to Ruochan wasn't just a casual remark. However, leaving or anything of that sort, my thoughts hasn't reached that point yet.

Wei Tan has already done well enough. From the incident with the five beauties to Qiao Ti, he has been devoted to me. Even with Ren **Ji**, if it weren't for Wei Jue forcing her upon him, he wouldn't have intended to accept her. Empathizing with him, I can't imagine anyone among the many men I know who, except for Pei Qian, would treat me in the same way.

I should be content. I think to myself, occupying an important place in my husband's heart and being the legal wife, just like my mother was before. Achieving this among the noblewomen in Chang'an was already the envy of other people.

It's ironic. In truth, I've understood this principle from the beginning, but perhaps Wei Tan was too convincing, that he has made me focus only on the two of us. Just like that night of joy, when we were immersed in it, everything seemed empty, but after enjoying to my heart's content, I have to face reality once again.

Wei Jue slammed Ren **Ji** over to me was a harsh wake-up call, meant to make me see my own position clearly.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

When I returned to the Wei residence with full of thoughts, I found Wei Tan's attendants waiting at the front. When they saw me, they came forward to greet me and informed me that Wei Tan had just returned.

My spirits lifted, and I walked into the hall, only to find it was very lively there.

"**Zhangsao**," Zhou **Shi** saw me and said with a smile, "**Da **Tangxiong** just returned, bringing a lot of fabrics, all silk and satin."

I asked her, "Where is Fujun?"

Zhou **Shi** replied, "He just went to his courtyard."

I nodded in response and walked towards the back courtyard.

As I arrived in the courtyard, sure enough, I immediately spotted Wei Tan in the center of the courtyard. However, in front of him stood Ren **Ji**, bowing and saluting with her head down.

My steps slightly hesitated, but the sharp eyes of servants behind Wei Tan noticed me, as they greeted, "**Shao Furen**."

Wei Tan turned his head towards me, and Ren **Ji** also raised her eyes.

"Fujun has returned," I greeted him with a smile, as I approached him and bowed.

Wei Tan looked relaxed and glanced at Ah Yuan behind me, asking, "Went to worship the gods?"

"That's right," I replied, glancing at Ren **Ji**, and said to Wei Tan, "It's getting late. Let **Qie** attend and help Fujun change clothes."

"No rush," Wei Tan smiled and said, "I brought back some fabrics. Go and pick some first."

I was surprised, but before I could speak, Wei Tan added, "Take Ren **Ji** too, go quickly. If late, then **difu**s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="弟妇(dìfù)-younger brother's wife; younger sister-in-law"></sup> will pick all the good ones."

Ren **Ji**? I was stunned, looking at her. She looked up with surprise, unable to hide her delight for a moment, but then said in a low voice, "Replying to **Da Gongzi**, **Qie**…"

"Go quickly," Wei Tan interrupted impatiently, "Ah Yuan, you go with Furen and Ren **Ji** to the hall as well."

The things Wei Tan brought back were indeed nice. There were Luoyang's dyed patterned silk fabric, all excellent materials for new clothes in the spring and summer.

However, I couldn't help but be petty. That guy Wei Tan, asked Ren **Ji** to follow me distributing the materials, is it to please the newcomer? I thought to myself, looked around, and felt that none of these things caught my eyes.

Ren **Ji** unfolded a piece of red bird-patterned silk and presented it to me, "This silk is very beautiful and will complement Furen's complexion perfectly."

I looked at the fabric and then at her, forcing a smile, "You should also pick some. The weather will soon be warm, and you need new clothes too."

In the end, I chose three pieces of fabric, and Ren **Ji** chose one. We had the servants carry them back.

When I returned to the room, Wei Tan had already changed his clothes, and there were some water spots on his head.

"Did Fujun wipe yourself?" I asked.

"En, I broke into a sweat just now," Wei Tan replied.

Sweat? I wondered in my heart. The weather wasn't hot, and he hadn't exerted himself in the courtyard. Where did the sweat come from? Despite my suspicion, I didn't feel like pressing for answers and let the matter go.

Throughout the meal, I spoke very little. I didn't want it to be that way, as Wei Tan had just returned, and I didn't want to create any rifts by showing my emotions. However, the more I tried to correct myself, the more my actions seemed forced. At night, when Wei Tan returned after entertaining guests, I poured him tea, but accidentally splashed hot tea on his hand.

"**Qie** will go get a handkerchief," feeling embarrassed, and quickly called for Ah Yuan.

But before I could turn around, Wei Tan stopped me.

"It's alright, no need to get a handkerchief," he said.

I looked at his hand, noticing a slight redness on his wrist.

"But what should we do if it gets burned?" I asked.

"It's just a minor injury," Wei Tan dismissed, pulling me into his lap and whispered, "Furen, blow on it, and it'll be fine."

His dark eyes were close, and he had an ambiguous smile, exuding a rogue charm.

Biting a little would be alright. I looked towards the door while holding his hand, with my face being slightly hot. Just as I was about to lower my head, suddenly, a muffled loud noise echoed, accompanied by a faint tremor, startling me.

"What was that sound?" I looked at Wei Tan, my heart pounding.

Wei Tan looked outside, released me, and stood up.

"**Da Gongzi**!" A servant rushed in hurriedly, looking panicked. "The side chamber's roof beam collapsed!"

"Roof beam?" I was extremely shocked, and in an instant, I thought of Ren **Ji**. I quickly asked, "How is Ren **Ji**?"

The servant said, "The beam only collapsed halfway, and it was supported by pillars, so no one was hurt."

I quickly walked out to see for myself after hearing the news.

In front of the west chamber, many servants were rushing over. Broken tiles and debris scattered on the ground, and Ren **Ji** stood in front of the room, her face pale with fear, tears shimmering in her eyes. When she saw Wei Tan, she was about to approach him, but stopped when she saw me.

"What happened?" Wei Tan frowned and asked.

"**Qie** doesn't know..." Ren **Ji** replied with a crying tone, looking helpless. "**Qie** was just about to rest, but didn't expect..." She choked up and started crying, and the maidservants beside her hurriedly comforted her.

I looked at the roof of the west chamber illuminated by moonlight and saw that a large section of the roof had collapsed. However, it seemed that the main beam was not affected, and the main chamber was unharmed.

The weight of doubt in my heart grew heavier, so I turned to Wei Tan.

He raised his head to look at the scene, but his expression was remarkably calm. When he noticed me looking at him, he raised an eyebrow slightly.

"Why did the beam collapse?" I asked.

Wei Tan rubbed his chin, seeming to contemplate deeply, "Yes ah, why indeed?"

<hr>
### Aewoo's Ramble ✨️ 

I wonder what, or rather, who, made the beam collapse? (⁠⁠ ꈍ⁠ᴗ⁠ꈍ⁠)

