---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 67: Betrothal"
order: 67
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

　　The roof of the west chamber collapsed, causing a big commotion.

　　Both Wei Jue and Guo Furen hadn't rested yet, so they came to check immediately after hearing the news.

　　"The roof collapsed? Did anyone get hurt?" Wei Jue asked immediately upon seeing Wei Tan.

　　"**Fuqin**, it was the roof of the west chamber that collapsed, not the beam of the main chamber, and no one was injured," Wei Tan reported.

　　Wei Jue went to the west chamber to have a look, and upon seeing that there was nothing serious, his face relaxed slightly.

　　"Fortunately nothing serious happened, it is the gods' blessing," Guo Furen said, heaving a sigh of relief as he clasped her hand to offer prayer.

　　Before long, the other people in the mansion also rushed to the scene, and even the cousins living nearby were alerted. Wei Zhao, Wei Ping, Wei Ci, all hurried over, along with Zhou **Shi** and others, to offer comfort and calm down the panic.

　　Amidst the bustling crowd, the servants responsible for repairs quickly identified the cause. They explained that the West chamber had been expanded a few years ago, but the beams were not properly connected to the main structure. Additionally, the construction materials might not have been sturdy enough, and the room had been left unoccupied for a long time, resulting in mold and insect infestation, leading to its collapse.

　　This statement sounded barely reasonable, but everyone felt unconvinced.

　　"Expansion of houses is common everywhere, so how could it collapse just because someone moved in?" someone remarked."That's right. These past few days, there has been no wind or rain, and even the thatched cottages are unharmed. How could this decent big mansion collapse?" Mao **Shi*& furrowed her brows and said in a low and soft voice, as she subtly glanced toward Ren **Ji**.

　　As the discussions continued, many people's expressions bore a hint of similarity to Mao **Shi**'s, implying that they shared unspoken thoughts and suspicions.
　　
　　"**Bocheng**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="伯成(Bó Chéng) - a term to address an older person or someone with a higher social status in a family or clan"></sup>," a senior member of the clan said with a serious expression, addressing Wei Jue, "the collapse of the house might not be a good omen. We should invite a *Fangshi*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="方士(Fāngshì)-a diviner, shaman, or a person skilled in various forms of esoteric knowledge, such as fortune-telling, astrology, and other mystical practices."></sup> to assess the situation."

　　Wei Jue stroked his beard in silence, after a moment, his gaze fell towards me and Wei Tan's direction.

　　"Tomorrow, we will go to the temple and invite a skilled person to divine the situation. Then, we'll find craftsmen to repair the damage," after pondering for a moment, Wei Jue said to the steward.

　　The steward agreed and after a moment, asked, "**Zhugong**, since the West Chamber is uninhabitable for now, shall we move Ren **Ji** to the East room?"

　　Wei Jue looked towards Ren **Ji**.

　　Ren **Ji** still had tears all over her face, looking delicate and overwhelmed.

　　"Let Ren **Ji** stay in the wing room near the Buddha hall (prayer hall) for now. We will discuss further arrangements once the house is repaired," Wei Jue suggested.

　　Upon hearing this, Ren **Ji** suddenly raised her head, her expression filled with panic, "**Chengxiang**…"

　　Wei Jue waved his hand, and the steward went off to carry out his orders. Guo Furen, on the other side, asked Zhang **Shi** to comfort Ren **Ji** and instructed me to arrange servants to clean up and move the belongings from the West Chamber to the Buddha hall.

　　As I went to carry out the orders and walked away, I caught a glimpse of Ren **Ji** standing still, looking dazed and lost in her thoughts.

　　I felt somewhat sorry for her in my heart, but at the same time, I am happy about this unexpected outcome. After all, I am the legal wife, and she is my husband's concubine.

　　The collapsed roof of the west chamber covered almost half of its area. Looking up from below, there was a void in the ceiling. The ground was scattered with debris, and the servants were busy sweeping and carrying away the mess.

　　Wei An squatted on the ground, looking at a broken section of a wooden beam.

　　"Ah An, have you figured out anything?" Wei Ci walked over with a cheerful smile.

　　Wei An clapped his hands, looking puzzled, and said, "The way this beam broke is strange."

　　"How is it strange?" I asked upon hearing his words.

　　Wei An pointed to the broken section of the beam and said, "If this wood had broken due to decay or insect infestation, the fracture would be irregular. But I see some parts that are neat and organized, it's like... umm…"

　　Before he could finish his sentence, Wei Ci quickly covered his mouth with his hand.

　　"You must be mistaken. The beam broke, and there's nothing neat or organized about it," Wei Ci said with a smile, glancing at me. "**Zhangsao** is busy, let's not disturb her!"

　　After speaking, he kept one hand over Wei An's mouth and put his other arm around Wei An's shoulder, and walked away with a smile.

<br>
　　Ren **Ji** was tearfully escorted to the side room near the Buddha hall, and as people gradually dispersed, before long, Wei Tan led me back inside the house (the main chamber).

　　He was covered in sweat, so he asked Ah Yuan to bring some water and then took off his outer garment.

　　I walked over, picked up a towel, wrung it out, and helped him wipe away the sweat.

　　Wei Tan stretched his arms wide, looking relaxed and content, seemingly enjoying the moment. After I finished wiping the sweat off him, he reached out and touched my forehead, saying, "Furen is sweating too."

　　"Just a little," I replied.

　　Wei Tan smiled and said, "Let me wipe it off for Furen." He then reached out to support my waist.

　　I looked at him without struggling.

　　Wei Tan seemed to sense something unusual in my behavior and held me for a while, "What's wrong?"

　　"The collapse of the beams in the west chamber, was it made by Fujun?" I asked softly.

　　Wei Tan's gaze flickered for a moment, and then he smiled, saying, "Such a wild guess?"

　　"I'll count to three," I looked into those dark eyes and whispered softly, "If Fujun doesn't admit it, then we'll let this matter pass."

　　Wei Tan looked surprised.

　　"One," I said, opening my mouth.

　　Wei Tan's eyes narrowed slightly, and he said in a low voice, "Oh? And what happens if it doesn't pass?"

　　"Two," I smiled, gently caressing his bare chest, lingering for a moment before slowly sliding down.

　　Wei Tan took a deep breath, and his gaze gradually turned into a passionate, intense shade.

　　"Three..." The words just left my mouth, when his lips fiercely sealed mine.

　　The atmosphere was intense and intoxicating. Wei Tan entangled with me for a while, a triumphant smile lingering on his lips. His voice was low and hoarse as he said, "I'm on top."

　　With those words, he lifted me up and carried me horizontally (the bridal style), and walked towards the bed.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

　　In the matter of the collapsed roof, the *Fangshi* who was called said it was due to the incompatibility between the newcomer's birth sign and the energy of the west chamber, and it was not a good idea for her to move in there. Afterward, I rarely saw Ren **Ji** and my life with Wei Tan seemed to revert to how it was before.

　　Wei Jue and Guo Furen were both a bit busy, and one major event was that Wei Zhao's marriage was finally settled. Wei Jue personally met the Emperor to seek marriage for Wei Zhao. The Emperor agreed and arranged for the suitable age of the Ninth Princess to be married to Wei Zhao. The wedding date was set for the Sixth Month.

　　Meanwhile, as for Wei Tan, he personally acted as the matchmaker to arrange the marriage between Cen and Qiao families. Perhaps because **Jiumu** had given up on Wei Zhao, she agreed to the marriage proposal from the Cen Family. The Cen Family was wealthy, and the Qiao Family had a good reputation. Both families were content with the match and agreed on a date, so the wedding took place at the end of the Fourth Month.

　　Guo Furen had long cherished expectations for Wei Zhao's marriage. After taking a look through the whole world, the most prestigious match would be with royalty. Wei Zhao's ability to marry an *Imperial Palace Princess* made Guo Furen's face glowing brighter day by day.
<div class="author-note">
公主(gōngzhǔ)- imperial princess, daughter of an emperor, in this case, the Current Emperor's sister.
</div>

　　"Furen, the servants are saying privately that **Chengxiang**'s intention in arranging a marriage between **Er Gongzi** and **Gongzhu** is to pave the way for **Er Gongzi**'s future," one day, Ah Yuan said to me with a worried expression.

　　I don't believe it. If this had happened last year, I might have pondered over it for a few days. However, later on, I realized that these matters are nothing more than people's rumors. Wei Tan's position in the military and court is not to be underestimated, and I don't see any necessity for Wei Jue to favor the younger son over the elder one.

　　However, people might think so, and I might also relate to it. I couldn't help but touch my still-flat abdomen. Since the new year until now, three months have passed, and my menstrual cycle is still regular.

　　"Furen..." Ah Yuan seemed to understand what I was thinking, feeling somewhat guilty.

　　I smiled reassuringly and shook my head, saying, "It's alright."

　　Indeed, some things are beyond our imagination. Moreover, there's another matter at hand that requires my attention. **Jiumu** sent a letter, stating that Qiao Ti refuses to get married and has been on a hunger strike for three days.

　　When I arrived at my **Jiumu**'s residence, her face was filled with worry, and upon seeing me, she sighed continuously.

　　"It's all because I indulged her too much in the past," she said, wiping her eyes with a handkerchief. "She kept saying she wanted to go to Yangzhou, and I thought she was just playing around, never expecting her to actually run away in the middle of the night. Thankfully, the servants noticed; otherwise... Oh Heaven! I am an orphan and widowed mother; why must my fate be so cruel!"

　　When she mentioned Yangzhou, I understood the reason behind this matter. I consoled her, saying, "**Jiumu**, please don't worry. I'll go talk to **Biaomei**." After that, I asked Qiao Ke to comfort **Jiumu** and went to the backyard.

　　Qiao Ti's room was very quiet, perhaps because they were afraid she might do something drastic. My **Jiumu** had arranged for two strong maids to watch over her. When I pushed the door open and entered, the maids greeted me, and I saw Qiao Ti lying motionless on the couch.

　　I walked over, and her wet nurse stepped forward, saying, "**Nǚjun**, Fu Furen has come to see you."

　　The bedding moved slightly, and after a moment, Qiao Ti turned her head towards me, her eyes cold and distant, amidst her disheveled hair.

　　I anticipated that she wouldn't be in a good mood, so I asked the wet nurse to leave us alone.

　　"I heard that **Biaomei** is unwilling to get married. I've come to ask about the reason," I addressed the matter straightforwardly, maintaining a calm tone.

　　Qiao Ti didn't reply and continued to stare at me in silence.

　　"Did my mother send you here?" she asked after a while.

　　I nodded, "Indeed."

　　"To persuade me to get married?"

　　I looked at her for a moment and replied, "Indeed."

　　Suddenly, something flew out from under the blanket. Fortunately, I managed to dodge in time, and I heard a 'bang' as a wooden pillow hit the wall behind me.

　　"**Nǚjun**!" The maids quickly rushed forward and restrained Qiao Ti.

　　"Let me go!" Qiao Ti struggled and glared at me with anger. "You are the one who told my mother! If you can't have him, you won't let me have him either! You wicked woman! I'll scratch your face and see if you can still deceive any man without that face!"

　　I was stunned, looking at her crazed appearance, she seemed to have lost her sanity.

　　"Furen, should I go and fetch **Jiu Furen**?" Ah Yuan tugged on my sleeve and whispered softly.

　　I shook my head and looked at Qiao Ti, trying to compose myself.

　　"**Biaomei** wants to go to Yangzhou to find Pei Qian, is that right?"

　　Qiao Ti struggled but couldn't break free from the two maids. After three days without eating, she was already gasping for breath. She stopped moving, glared at me, and then lay back on the couch without saying a word.

　　"You can go if you want," I said, "Go to Yangzhou, find Pei Qian. He may recognize you, and perhaps he'll take you in. But do you think that alone will make him yours? How many times did he really look at you back in Chang'an? You've always envied what others have, thinking their lives are better. Do you even know much about Pei Qian? What he likes, eats, says, and thinks? Pei Qian is not a puppet. Even if he marries you, what if one day you realize he is not what you imagined? Will you still wholeheartedly love him?" I said it all in one go, shaking my head. "**Biaomei**, what you like might not be Pei Qian himself, but rather your own obsession!"

　　Qiao Ti remained silent.

　　I waited for a while, realizing that she might not speak anymore. It didn't matter to me; if she could take my words to heart, that would be best. If not, I would have to find a way to call off the marriage to avoid any damage to Wei Tan's and Qiao family's reputation because of this troublesome woman.

　　I was about to leave when Qiao Ti suddenly sneered, "You think you are very great, right?"

　　I halted and turned to look at her. She was staring at me, saying, "Don't think I don't know. That day at the temple, you saw Zhao Jun, right?" She sat up, a mocking smile on her face. "**Da Gongzi** saw it too. How did **Biaozi** explain it back then? A chance encounter? If I were to inform **Chengxiang**, I wonder…"

　　With a "Pa!" sound, I raised my hand and slapped her, interrupting her words.

　　Qiao Ti covered her face, enraged, and attempted to grab me, but the maids quickly restrained her.

　　"This slap is on behalf of **Jiufu**!" I retorted with anger. "If you want to accuse me, go ahead! But I want you to think carefully, if **Chengxiang** believes you, I'll suffer, and the Qiao Family will be implicated too. If **Chengxiang** doesn't believe you, you'll be charged with false accusation, and the Qiao Family will still be affected! Qiao Ti, **Jiufu** has lived his life with honesty and integrity! If you have such intentions, then do it boldly, but don't just talk halfway and hesitate. Don't make **Jiufu** lose his face, or I'll lose respect for you!"

　　Qiao Ti glared at me, her face pale, and her eyes were bloodshot.

　　I continued walking towards the door without looking back. But before reaching the door, I heard her crying loudly from behind, "I want to go to Yangzhou! Wu Kun is marrying his sister to Jiyuan **Gongzi**, he is going to marry a wife!"

　　My steps seemed to be hindered, and I turned around in astonishment. Qiao Ti was now prostrate on the couch, crying bitterly, but she no longer struggled.

　　"Ah Jin..." In my mind, the image of Pei Qian appeared, looking at me, his face pale and helpless.

<br>
　　On the way back to the residence, the carriage was quiet.

　　I looked out of the window, still thinking about Qiao Ti's words just now. Wu Kun... I gazed at the passersby outside, who passed like fleeting clouds.

　　"Furen," Ah Yuan's voice came from beside me. She looked at me hesitantly and said, "I also know about Jiyuan **Gongzi**'s situation. Gongyang **Gongzi** returned from the south last month and informed Father about it, but Father forbade me from telling you, that's why..." She looked embarrassed, and didn't continue her words.

　　I didn't blame her either. Li Shang's decision was reasonable, and reaching this point with Wei Tan was not easy. As for Pei Qian, he was already unrelated to me. Knowing about this matter would only add unnecessary worries.

　　"It's alright, don't let it bother you." I patted Ah Yuan's shoulder and smiled gently.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

　　Few days after that, news came from the south. Liang Ren, who was previously involved in Zhao Jun's failed plot, escaped and sought refuge with Liang Chong. Unfortunately, Liang Chong fell seriously ill, so his eldest son Liang Dan took charge of the family affairs. Wei Jue ordered Cen Han to lead the army south to pursue Liang Ren. Liang Dan, being weak and frightened by the approach of Wei Jue's large army, killed Liang Ren and presented his head to Cen Han's army.

　　Upon hearing the news, Wei Jue was delighted, but he didn't stop there. He ordered Cen Han to deliver a message, saying that if Liang Dan was willing to surrender, he would be granted the title of Duke of Jingzhou. Liang Dan had no intention of fighting and, upon hearing this, immediately opened the city gates. Cen Han occupied Jingzhou and sent the seriously ill Liang Chong and Liang Dan's family to Chang'an. However, while crossing the river, their boat encountered strong winds and waves, causing it to capsize. Everyone onboard drowned.

　　Wei Jue had the Emperor issue a mourning decree for Liang Chong and Liang Dan, honoring them as Dukes of Jingzhou. However, before Wei Jue could celebrate, Liang Chong's third son, Liang Wen, organized the remaining troops in Jingzhou and rebelled, capturing cities like Jiangling and establishing his own power base. This rekindled rebellion angered Wei Jue, and he was preparing to send another army to suppress it. At that moment, his advisor Yang Shan proposed using Jingzhou as bait, suggesting that Huaiyang's Wu Kun be sent to attack Liang Wen. 　　

　　Before the envoy could set out, news arrived from the south that Jingzhou had already been taken. Liang Wen had joined forces with Wu Kun and launched a surprise attack on Jingzhou, killing Cen Han. Now, Liang Wen and Wu Kun were confronting Wei Jue, creating a tense standoff between the forces of the north and south.

　　Amidst the tense situation, at the end of the Fourth Month, Xu **Ji** gave birth to a baby boy.

　　This event was like a timely relief during a snowstorm. Wei Jue was overjoyed and personally named the baby boy Wei Zhi.

<div class="author-note">
治(zhì) - to govern, to rule.
</div>
