---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 73: Qiling (Part 1)"
order: 73
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

<div class="author-note">
骐陵(qílíng)-hill,mound/mausoleum of Qi(black horse/mythical unicorn) 
</div>

　　"Has Fujun recovered from illness?" I didn't feel like joking with him, I looked at him with confusion.

　　"Recovered." Wei Tan held my hand, with a satisfied glint in the corners of his eyes, "Seeing Furen is all that matters."

　　"Fujun is feigning illness?"
Wei Tan neither confirmed nor denied, looking at me cunningly, his voice low, "If I weren't ill, could Furen have come?"

　　I couldn't find any words to say.

　　He appeared so delighted, but I couldn't manage a smile. For these past two weeks, my heart has been racing to get here, full of worry and anticipation. Yet, in the end, it seems it was all just a playful prank on his part.

　　Now that he sees me, he's full of pride<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="得意洋洋(déyì yáng-yáng ) - be immensely proud with a look of triumph; "></sup>, and I'm nothing more than a foolish person who deserved to be deceived.

　　"**Da Gongzi**." At that moment, Wang Hui's voice came from outside the tent, "**Tang Gongzi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="address of a servant to their master's Tang cousin"></sup>…"

　　"What's there to report, no need to report!" Before the words had even finished, the tent flap was lifted, and Wei Ci walked in, his face beaming with a smile, "I heard **Zhangsao** has arrived!" He noticed me and approached with a bow, "Greetings to **Zhangsao**!"

　　I withdrew my hand from Wei Tan's grasp, stood up, and nodded in acknowledgment, "**Tangshu**."

　　"What are you here for? Aren't you supposed to train those new recruits?" Wei Tan seemed somewhat displeased, casting a glance at him while still lying on the couch.

　　"**Tangxiong**, rest assured, the sergeants under my command are all skilled at training!" Wei Ci said with a smile. "When I heard **Zhangsao** had arrived, I hurried over." He then looked at me. "**Zhangsao**, I heard Ah An also came? Why haven't One seen him?"

　　"**Sishu** went to see **Jiushi** first," I said.

　　"I see." Wei Ci nodded. He glanced at the case behind him and suddenly asked, "**Tangxiong**, what about that chess game from noon today?"

　　"Taken back," Wei Tan replied.

　　"How was it taken back?" Wei Ci was anxious. "I've been thinking about that position, and I wanted to come and challenge you to see who would come out on top!"

　　Wei Tan coldly snorted, "With you?"

　　As soon as he said that, he immediately sat up from the couch.

　　"Even talking makes me sweat. It's really hot today," Wei Tan frowned. He adjusted his robe and then smiled at me, "Furen, how about having the servants bring a basin of water? Then change **Weifu**'s clothes."

　　Very well.

　　A surge of anger welled up within me. I've been jostled on the road, exposed to the wind and sun, and yet this scoundrel lies comfortably in the tent, pretending to be ill, making jokes and playing chess. And now he wants me to fetch water and help him change... I gave a cold smile, "After enduring the hardships of this journey, **Qie** is not feeling well. If Fujun needs to change clothes, let the attendants do it!" With that, I didn't even glance at the two of them and turned to leave.

　　As I stepped outside the tent, a gust of hot wind hit me in the face, and the sun's scorching rays beat down on my head, causing me to squint my eyes.

　　I had forgotten to wear my veil, but there's no way I'm going back to fetch it. The blazing heat was infuriating me more than this cursed weather.

　　Wei Tan, that scoundrel, rogue, pig! I walked on, fuming inside, hurling a stream of curses at him. I cursed for quite a while, still feeling unsatisfied. I spotted a pile lf grass by the side of the road and kicked it.

　　Unexpectedly, there was a piece of wood hidden within the grass, and my toe felt a piercing pain. "Ss..." 

　　Several heads popped up nearby; it turned out to be some soldiers resting in the shade under the pile of grass. I had startled them, and they looked at me with bewildered expressions on their faces.

　　I was in pain, tears welling up in my eyes, feeling both annoyed and embarrassed as I looked at them.

　　"Huh? Who's that?"

　　"A woman! It's a woman!"

　　"Hey! How could there be a woman here..."

　　Several shirtless soldiers gathered about twenty feet away, sizing me up with curious expressions.

　　"Go go go! All of you, back to training! Lazy, huh!" Wei Ci hurried over, furrowing his brow and shouting loudly at them.

　　The soldiers quickly fell silent and dispersed away.

　　"Zhang Yi!" Wei Ci didn't let up, shouting at a person in the distance, "If I catch anyone loafing around again, you'll receive twenty military lashes!"

　　Someone on the other side nervously responded with a quick "Yes!" and the area suddenly cleared out, leaving no one around.

　　Turning back towards me, Wei Ci's angry expression softened, and he greeted me with a warm smile, "**Zhangsao**!"

　　One doesn't strike a person offering a friendly smile, and as I looked at this comical sight, I couldn't vent my anger no matter how great it was.

　　"En," I glanced at him and then turned my head away.

　　"The sun outside is strong, **Zhangsao**, please put on the veil." Wei Ci continued to be attentive, extending the veil to me with both hands and saying, "Earlier, as I chased after **Zhangsao**, **Tangxiong** called me back and asked me to bring this out for **Zhangsao**."

　　It does seem like he cares, but I won't forgive Wei Tan that easily.

　　I took the veil in silence and put it on without saying a word.

　　Wei Ci's face was full of concern as he said, "**Zhangsao** has just arrived, and not feeling well. It might be better to go back to the tent and rest."

　　I glanced at him, "Did Fujun ask **Tangshu** to come?"

　　Wei Ci smiled, somewhat embarrassed, "**Zhangsao** is clever."

　　"Why doesn't he come and say it himself?" I said coldly.

　　Wei Ci looked a little awkward, glancing around and scratching his head.

　　"**Zhangsao** don't blame **Tangxiong** too much. He feigned illness out of necessity," Wei Ci's cheerful demeanor faded, and he spoke in a hushed tone. "As **Zhangsao** knew, **Da Tangxiong** established the navy, but **Chengxiang** issued the order and sent **Da Tangxiong** to the rear army. This matter, not just within the navy, but the entire court discussed for a while. Last month, heavy rains delayed the grain convoy on the road, and the vanguard had to eat plain gruel for two days. Immediately, rumors spread that **Tangxiong** was disgruntled and intentionally seeking revenge. **Chengxiang** sent investigators to look into the rumors and punished those who spread them. However, afterward, when **Chengxiang** needed a skilled general to lead the navy, there were immediate suggestions that since the navy lacked leadership, **Da Tangxiong** should be reinstated."

　　As he spoke, he looked at me, a bitter smile formed on his face. "**Zhangsao** is a clever person, and understand **Chengxiang**'s temperament. In such circumstances, if **Da Tangxiong** doesn't feign illness to avoid the storm, what else can he do?"

　　I remained silent. In fact, as he spoke just now, I gradually became lost in thought, and the discontent in my heart was replaced by rapidly spinning thoughts.

　　"He..." After a moment, I opened my mouth and asked, "How long has FuJun been feigning this illness?"

　　"Not long, just about a month," Wei Ci smiled. "He managed to convince even **Chengxiang**, and that's why **Zhangsao** was called over."

　　Not long? A whole month? I sighed inwardly. Knowing Wei Tan, who can't sit still, and with such hot weather, having him cooped up in a tent for a month, it's no wonder he looked like a restless child who finally found a toy when he saw me earlier.

　　"**Zhangsao**, please go back," Wei Ci persuaded.

　　I nodded, feeling a bit embarrassed as I looked at him, then turned and walked back to where I came from.

　　As I was pondering how to approach Wei Tan when I saw him, suddenly, an attendant came over and bowed to me, saying, "Furen, **Chengxiang** has sent the Chief Scribe Hou Jun to visit **Da Gongzi**. Would Furen please return?" 

　　Hou Jun? I was surprised and exchanged a glance with Wei Ci before quickly walking towards the main tent.

　　As soon as I entered the tent, I saw a middle-aged man standing by the couch, engaged in a conversation with a man who appeared to be a medical officer<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="郎中 (lángzhōng) - physician trained in herbal medicine"></sup>.

　　Seeing me enter the tent, Hou Jun hurried over and bowed, "Greetings **Shao Furen**."

　　"Hou **Gong**," I quickly returned the gesture.

　　I wasn't particularly familiar with Hou Jun, but his name was well-known. He came from a humble background, yet he was knowledgeable and astute, having served under Wei Jue for many years. He was a capable strategist in Wei Jue's camp.

　　"**Chengxiang** )earned of Furen's arrival today and sent **Mou** to visit. He also worried that there might be insufficient supplies in the tent, so he had One bring some essentials. If **Shao Furen** needs anything, please don't hesitate to let One know," Hou Jun said with a smile.

　　His other reputation is for having a good temperament and loves, so I responded, "Thank you, Hou **Gong**. Everything One needs is here, and there's currently nothing lacking."

　　This time, a low groan came from the bed, interrupting the conversation between Hou Jun and me.

　　Hou Jun quickly walked over, "**Da GongZ?zi**…"

　　"**Da Gongzi**'s muttering in his sleep; he's been in a state of semi-consciousness recently, and it's quite common," the medical officer added from the side.

　　I glanced at him, and the medical officer's face showed a trace of embarrassment. He lowered his head and folded his hands. Looking back at the bed, I saw Wei Tan with a cloth wrapped around his forehead, his eyes closed, his face pale, and the lively color from earlier had disappeared entirely. He looked like someone seriously ill.

　　Just as I was feeling surprised, Hou Jun turned his face and looked deeply concerned, "**Da Gongzi** has been sick for a month, and there's been no improvement. We've been discussing this privately, and we're very worried."

　　As he finished speaking, suddenly, Wei Tan coughed heavily twice.

　　Hou Jun was startled, and I was also taken aback.

　　"**Da Gongzi**," Hou Jun stood beside the couch, carefully calling out.

　　Wei Tan didn't respond at all.

　　Hou Jun was about to use his hand to check Wei Tan's forehead, but I hurriedly stepped forward, placing my hand on his forehead first.

　　It wasn't hot at all, just like an ordinary person's temperature.

　　"How is it?" Hou Jun asked.

　　Though I knew the truth, I had to continue the act in front of Wei Jue's people.

　　I looked at him, shook my head, and after a moment, I let out a soft sigh, "When **Qie** heard of Fujun's serious illness in Yongdu, One was already extremely worried. Yet, now that One has come here, the reality is even worse than what One had feared."

　　"Furen has been through so much," Hou Jun quickly responded.

　　"**Qie**'s toil is not worth mentioning," I said, my voice full of sorrow, "One only hopes Fujun can recover from this, **Qie** wouldn't mind any further hardships or challenges." As I spoke, I lowered my head even more, even raising my sleeve to feign wiping my cheeks, acting as if I were deeply affected.

　　Hou Jun also sighed.

　　I looked at Wei Tan, and his hand was exposed outside the thin blanket. I thought to myself, he's playing the role quite convincingly, and intentionally pushed his hand back under the blanket. Unexpectedly, he held onto my fingers in return, and I struggled silently, but he wouldn't let go.

　　"The southern climate is sultry, and when marching in the field, it's common to face challenges with the local environment. However, **Da Gongzi**'s current illness has taken a more severe turn than we initially anticipated," Hou Jun said.

　　I nodded slowly.

　　Under the blanket, I forcefully scratched Wei Tan's palm with my fingers, but he tightened his grip even more, and I nearly made a sound.

　　"**Shao Furen** doesn't need to worry too much. **Da Gongzi** is robust, and they say that sudden illnesses recover faster than prolonged ones. **Chengxiang** has sent someone to search for a skilled doctor in nearby Muyang. Now, with **Shao Furen** by the side, **Da Gongzi** will surely recover soon."

　　Wei Tan's hand had already pinned mine down, and my attempt to counter with scratching ended up making my palm itch.

　　I felt my face tighten, almost as if it might cramp. I had to lower my head even further, my shoulders trembling slightly, and my voice sounded strained as if being squeezed out, "Thank you Hou **Gong** for such kind words…"

　　Hou Jun sighed again and said, "**Shao Furen**, please don't be too sorrowful. **Mou**'s intrusion has been quite lengthy, so One will take leave now."

　　I stood up to see Hou Jun off, but Wei Tan wouldn't let go of my hand.

　　Getting annoyed, I pinched his palm firmly, and only then did he finally release his grip.

　　"**Qie** can't send you far, Hou **Gong**, please go slowly," I stood up and bowed.

　　Hou Jun bowed once again, "**Shao Furen**, please do sit." After saying that, he turned and followed the medical officer out of the tent.

　　As the tent door closed, not long after, Wang Hui poked his head in, "**Shao Furen**, he's gone far."

　　I finally relaxed and turned my head, but I saw Wei Tan curled up inside the blanket, his shoulders trembling.

　　I glanced at him and walked over, forcefully turning his shoulder to face him.

　　Sure enough, Wei Tan burst into laughter uncontrollably, the pale color on his face contrasting oddly with the joy in his expression.

　　I kept a stern face, staring at him, but after a while, it was as if I got infected, and I burst into laughter.

　　Wei Tan pulled me into his arms, but I resisted, pushing him away forcefully. In the process, my hand brushed against his face, revealing a layer of grayish-white, as if he had powdered it.

　　"Such a mess," I stuck out my tongue and chuckled, wiping my fingers on his collar with determination.

　　However, Wei Tan caught my hand and held it down.

　　"You aren't angry anymore?" After laughing for a while, he looked at me with a playful glint in his eyes.

　　"Who says I'm not angry?" I wiped my hand across his lips, examining my finger afterward, still covered in that powder, unapologetically smearing it onto the other side of his collar.
