---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 79: Wancheng"
order: 79
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

<div class="author-note">
城 (chéng) - city, town
</div>

Those people are not friendly. 

Ah Yuan tightly grasped my arm, looking at me with a nervous expression. 

"But we have no money or valuables," Wei Jiao said.

 I had a bad feeling. Sure enough, those two exchanged a glance, smiled and laughed cruelly.

"Pēi<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="spitting"></sup>!" A slightly shorter tall man sneered, "Got a carriage and horses, yet no wealth? In this world, **Yéye**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="爷爷(Yéye) - lit. grandfather. used as a way to refer to oneself in a somewhat arrogant or self-assured manner."></sup> has seen people who won't let go of their lives, but never seen anyone who won't let go of their wealth!"

Another person raised a knife and pointed it at Wei Jiao, saying, "Give up your wealth to save your life! Otherwise, you'll see blood!"

Everyone's faces turned pale, especially Wei Jiao, who stared at the tip of the knife, so frightened that he couldn't utter a single word.

"Brave sir, hold on a moment and listen to a word from **Qie**!" Seeing the situation wasn't good, I hurriedly spoke, "We're fleeing our home to avoid the disaster of the war. We left in a hurry and indeed didn't bring any money or valuables. If **Zhuangshi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="壮士(zhuàngshì) - brave, strong, fighter"></sup> doesn't believe it. you can go check the carriage. Our belongings are all inside. If you're after money, you can take the carriage and horses. I implore you to spare my family's lives!"

The two individuals looked at me for a moment. Then, the taller one exchanged a glance with the shorter one, and the shorter one walked towards the carriage.

I heard the sound of things being moved around with a 'thud thud'. Before long, he came out, looking frustrated. "It's true there are no valuables," he said with annoyance.

The taller one seemed somewhat disappointed, looking at me. But suddenly, he smiled, retracted his knife, and wiped the blade. He walked over, sizing me up from head to toe.

My heart raced, and I couldn't help but take a couple of steps back.

"Not bringing valuables is not a big deal," his small eyes gleamed, "This beautiful lady can come with me to our village, and I'll ensure that…"

Before he could finish his sentence, the shorter man nudged him with his elbow.

"**Da Ge**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="大哥 (Da Ge) - lit. big/eldest brother; a colloquial way of addressing someone older or in a position of authority; usually to address a boss/leader"></sup> said, only rob valuables, not people," he whispered.

The taller man impatiently glared at him, glanced around, and muttered, "**Da Ge** isn't here, and I'm already thirty..." As he spoke, he gave me a sidelong glance and his expression turned greedy.

Feeling increasingly fearful, I tightly held onto Ah Yuan's hand and took a couple of steps back.

"Yang San! Deng Wu!" At this moment, a voice came from the woods, "What's the situation? Find anything?"

It was as if a breath of fresh air had entered a stifling heat. When I heard that voice, I was momentarily stunned.

"We've got something! We've got something!" the shorter man exclaimed.

Footsteps rustling through the undergrowth approached, and before long, a person with half their face covered emerged from the woods, their features partly obscured by the flickering firelight.

Seeing me, he also paused for a moment.

"I've been telling you all that robbing travelers is not a good idea, and now we've actually robbed our own," Gongyang Gui said, removing the black cloth from his face and smiling faintly.

<br>
The night was dark, enveloping the mountains and fields, with only a few scattered lights resembling oranges.

It was an abandoned village, with a few dilapidated thatched houses that had been minimally repaired and were still habitable.

"The place is simple, you'll have to make do," Gongyang Gui led me into one of the houses and pointed to a corner with a bed of grass, "You and Ah Yuan can stay together."

I nodded and thanked him. Compared to sleeping in the wild, this was indeed much better.

Just a while ago, It was a false alarm in the woods. It turned out that the two people attempting to rob us were actually friends of Gongyang Gui, part of the gang of river pirates. Fortunately, Gongyang Gui showed up; otherwise, things could have taken a bad turn. After Gongyang Gui learned about our situation, he suggested that it was dangerous to stay outside and proposed we rest at their lodging place instead.

To be honest, after the earlier fright, I was quite wary of them. However, I still trusted Gongyang Gui, and staying in the wilderness wasn't an ideal option. None of us were armed, and we wouldn't be able to fend off wild beasts or pursuers.

At the doorway, seven or eight sturdy-looking men blocked the way, observing us with curious expressions on their faces.

Ah Yuan pulled me gently, her face displaying a fearful expression.

Seeing this, Gongyang Gui said to me, "They are all my brothers from the escort business, all are righteous men. They suffered heavy losses before and had no choice but to flee here. Taking refuge in this desolate village, they wouldn't resort to banditry if they weren't driven to a corner."

"They were originally river pirates..." Ah Yuan muttered discontentedly.

I tugged at her to signal her to hush and smiled, saying, "Since they're fellow escorts, they can be considered acquaintances."

Gongyang Gui waved at them, gesturing, "Come on in."

With those words, the big men all entered, smiling and nodding. Some nodded towards me, some bowed, and some even made a slight bow, creating a lively and cheerful atmosphere.

"One didn't know that Furen was an acquaintance of Gongyang **Xiongdi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="兄弟(xiongdi) - brother"></sup>. Please forgive any offense!" The taller man from earlier, Yang San, scratched his head, looking quite embarrassed.

Deng Wu, who was standing beside him, also chuckled and said, "Furen might not know, but we brothers make a living on the road by seeking food and clothing. We might look fierce, but we're actually kind-hearted at heart…"

Yang San nudged him, "Deng Wu, don't praise yourself too much. Who was it that just now threatened and cursed, saying they wanted money and didn't care about lives?"

Deng Wu playfully poked back, "You've got some nerve! Weren't you the one claiming you're thirty and wanted to rob Furen earlier?"

The two of them exchanged glances and playful words, while the other men burst into laughter. Ah Yuan and I exchanged knowing smiles and looked at each other in disbelief.

Despite being extremely tired from the journey, I couldn't find any trace of sleepiness. After settling down, I called out to Gongyang Gui.

I wanted to talk to him, not for any particular reason, but mainly to find out how he ended up in this place. Additionally, I wanted to inquire about the situation on Wei Tan's side and Wancheng.

The first matter was easy to discuss, and I had a basic understanding already. Gongyang Gui had indeed been intercepted at a checkpoint, but given his identity, the escorts there didn't dare treat him like an ordinary prisoner. So, Gongyang Gui managed to escape and eventually made his way south to join up with these river pirate brothers.

Regarding the second matter, Gongyang Gui mentioned that he had been in the countryside for the past few days, and he wasn't aware of the current situation in Qiling and Wancheng.

However, he did share some information about what had been happening in Wancheng.

"Qiling and Wancheng are both within the boundaries of Rong County. This area is crisscrossed with waterways, making travel by boat convenient. **Da Gongzi** instructed you to take the route through Wancheng back to the capital, likely considering the waterway's convenience," Gongyang Gui explained. "When **Chengxiang** marched south and conquered the southern regions, the strategy was also along these lines."

I nodded in understanding.

"At the beginning of the war, Liang and Wu retreated, and in Rong County, **Chengxiang**'s forces took only seven days to conquer it," Gongyang Gui said with a significant look in his eyes. "Have you ever wondered why, considering Liang and Wu had formidable naval forces, Rong County was considered easy to defend and difficult to attack? Why were they repelled within just seven days?"

My heart tightened as I looked at him.

Gongyang Gui gazed outside the door and continued, "This place was originally part of the Liang family's (the royal family) territory. **Chengxianh** holds the Emperor's decree and commands the vassals. The people of Rong County have many grievances against **Chengxiang**. Even if Liang Wen retreated, it would be easy for him to return. After taking Wancheng, the Wan River serves as a natural barrier, capable of separating the north and south. If Wancheng falls into Liang Wen's hands, it could form a pincer strategy with Qiling." He paused and then added, "This plan has likely been in the making for a long time."
<div class="author-note">
pincer strategy - a military tactic where forces attack the enemy from two sides, effectively surrounding them.
</div>

As I listened to him speak, I felt a cold sensation wash over me, and shivers ran down my spine.

"When I left Qiling, my husband was still unaware of this," my voice trembled.

Gongyang Gui's expression grew serious as he said, "Wancheng is a vital location. If there are any changes, there should be a report about it."

"But we only learned about the situation when we reached the city gate," my heart raced faster, and I stared at Gongyang Gui, "You mentioned that Liang Wen might have planned this for a long time. They might have everything prepared, waiting for the main army's retreat." As I spoke, I could already imagine the main army retreating into Wancheng, falling into an ambush: flames, blood, cries of battle. Those who managed to escape would be swallowed by the river…

"It's possible to send a message to **Xiongzhang**," a voice suddenly spoke calmly.

Surprised, I turned my head, only to see Wei An standing by the door.

He looked at us and said, "**Xiongzhang** once mentioned that if there's a change in the situation in the rear army, he will signal with fire."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

"A higher spot in the mountains... Well, there is one, but unfamiliar travelers might not be able to find their way there," When everyone gathered together, Yang San pondered and said.

I nodded, "Indeed, **Qie** has heard that you brave men (**zhuangshi**) are familiar with this area. That's why I seek your assistance."

The big men exchanged glances.

"Burning the mountains isn't a big deal, but climbing up and setting a fire is necessary," one of them scratched his ear and commented, "But those Wei bandits are cunning, and everyone in Rong County wants to eliminate them…"

Immediately, someone chimed in, "And Wu Kun isn't a good person either. He killed our brothers and captured Da Ge. We don't even know if he's alive or dead now."

The crowd started discussing among themselves.

Gongyang Gui remained silent.

I looked at Yang San, who had a contemplative expression, seemingly undecided.

"If you brave men are willing to help, **Qie** is willing to offer compensation," I said.

As soon as I spoke, the room fell silent.

"Since Furen mentioned compensation, I'll be frank as well," Yang San smiled and said, "My brothers and I are all from the road. What Furen has brought up involves opposing Liang and Wu. This matter is dangerous, and Furen should be aware of that."

I nodded, "Indeed. **Qie** is deeply concerned about saving One's husband. As for compensation, we can discuss it."

Yang San spoke slowly, "Furen comes from a prestigious family, and Furen's husband is at the very least a general. We're agreeing to help partly for the sake of Gongyang **Xiongdi**."

I understood his implication and said, "Please name **Zhuangshi**'s price."

"100,000 taels of silver," Yang San said.

As soon as he spoke, the people behind him showed surprised expressions.

I looked at him for a moment and then said, "100,000 taels of silver? Does **Zhuangshi** knows how much a five-story mansion in Yongdu can be sold for? **Qie**'s is just from a small family, and even risking our lives, it wouldn't be worth 100,000 taels of silver."

Yang San smiled and said, "How much can Furen offer?"

"10,000 taels of silver," I said, "Our family is struggling, relying solely on my husband's meager salary. After scraping together everything, this is all we can afford."

Yang San said, "For the eight of us, 10,000 taels of silver might not be sufficient."

I bit my lip and asked, "How much do you need, then?"

A gleam appeared in Yang San's eyes, "15,000 taels."

I looked at him and said, "I'll add another 1,000, making it 11,000."

"At the very least, 13,000."

"11,500."

Deng Wu, behind Yang San, impatiently chimed in, "12,000!"

"Deal," I smiled.

Yang San glared at Deng Wu, who looked at him and then at me, utterly baffled.

"**Zhuangshi**, is the agreement settled?" I asked Yang San.

Yang San took a deep breath and stood up, saying, "Since we've agreed, we will certainly honor our word. I'm just not sure how Furen intends to settle the payment, considering you're here."

I replied, "Gongyang **Gongzi** is familiar with **Qie**'s family's mansion. I can use my artwork as collateral and hand it over to **Gongzi**. Once we return to Yongdu, it can serve as proof."

Yang San hesitated for a moment and then chuckled, "So you're saying we have to escort Furen back to Yongdu before we can receive the payment?"

"I'll vouch for this matter," Gongyang Gui interjected calmly, "The agreed-upon amount will be delivered by me."

Yang San looked at him, hesitated for a moment, and then smiled at a few of the big men, "What are you waiting for? The deal is here! Arm yourselves and let's go!"

The big men got up in a rush, each going to get their belongings.

I felt relieved and bowed to Yang San, "Thank you, **Zhuanshi**."

"Thank me when the job is done!" Yang San waved his hand and led the group out of the room.

They were gone for quite a while after that.
　　
<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The night had grown very late, and outside the thatched cottage, the earlier noisy summer insects had quieted down.

I stood by the door, gazing into the pitch-black distance, where there were no stars or moon in sight.

"You should rest first," Gongyang Gui walked over, glancing outside, "Setting a fire on the mountain at night, while keeping it discreet, won't be too quick."

I shook my head, "I'll wait a bit longer."

Gongyang Gui didn't say anything and sat down on the doorstep's stone.

　You were negotiating with Yang San just now, haggling over the price, you didn't lose your touch from the old days," he suddenly remarked.

I glanced at him, a smile curling on my lips, "Is that so?" Back in Chang'an, Gongyang Gui had once accompanied me to the market at my second brother's request, to sell some old items. At that time, he felt embarrassed to stand beside me and yet didn't want to break his promise, so he watched from a distance. I still remember that awkward expression.

"Why did Furen bargain with him just now?" Ah Yuan asked, "Aren't you worried he might find the price too low and reject the offer?"

"Reject? How could he?" I smiled faintly, "They've resorted to robbery out of desperation. Being able to earn ten thousand taels by setting a fire, they'll be overjoyed." I looked at Gongyang Gui and sincerely added, "Thanking **Gongzi** for keeping this confidential."

He gave me a sidelong glance, his expression unchanging, but his eyes held an unspoken understanding.

Becoming brothers with river bandits isn't something that can be achieved through casual interactions. Dealing with them through Gongyang Gui means adhering to their rules. They're in need of money, and my involvement is essentially a business transaction. If I'm doing business, there needs to be negotiations and pricing involved.

Gongyang Gui's identity is known to Yang San and the others. Since I'm acquainted with Yang San, they might speculate about my identity. This can be inferred from the price I'm willing to pay.

100,000 taels of silver is a sum that very few families in the entire capital could afford. Yang San proposing that price was a test. If I had agreed, providing the money would have been a small matter, but it might have exposed my identity and led to more complications in the future. 10,000 taels, however, is an amount that a common government official's family could scrape together. By negotiating and bargaining, and acting as if I'm struggling to afford it, it would alleviate Yang San's suspicions and also convey to him that the deal isn't worth pursuing if it exceeds a certain price.

Just as I mentioned to Ah Yuan, they are in need of money, so they wouldn't refuse the offer…

"**Zhangsao**, over there," Wei An suddenly said.

I snapped back to attention and followed his gesture. Sure enough, in the distance, a cluster of firelight appeared in the dark night, resembling a freshly lit lantern, gradually growing brighter.

"It's in the direction of Wancheng," Gongyang Gui stood up from the stone step, dusted off his clothes, and looked at me, "12,000 taels, that's set."
