---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 90: Standoff"
order: 90
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

Wei Tan looked at Wu Kun and said to those around in a serioustone, "Prepare for battle!"

The soldiers orderly returned to their positions, and Cheng Mao came over, saying, "Our ship bears the banner of Jiangdong. They might not be aware of our true identity."

Wei Tan pondered and said, "Let's take it step by step. Move forward"

Cheng Mao agreed. 

Wei Tan looked at me and said, "Furen and **Sidi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th younger brother"></sup> should go into the cabin for now."

Although I felt uneasy, I knew I would only be a hindrance here, so I could only nod in agreement.

The soldiers opened the cabin door. Wei Jiao helped Huang **Shu** down first, followed closely by Wei An. Ah Yuan went down next, waiting for me at the bottom. Wei Tan supported me down the ladder. Just before I touched the ground, I looked up at him and said, "Fujun, be careful.'

Wei Tan lowered his head, a smile curving on his lips. "Don't worry."

The cabin door closed, blocking out everything from the outside. I stood there for a moment before turning my head. Oil lamps illuminated the interior of the cabin, and both Ah Yuan and Wei An were looking at me. 

"**Xiongzhang** isn't afraid of anything," Wei An seemed to feel the need to console me. He said, "**Zhangsao**, don't worry." 

I nodded slightly, still burdened with worries.

The cabin felt a bit stuffy. No one was speaking, and occasionally, someone would run across the deck making a 'dong dong' sound. Apart from that, the rhythmic sound of oars battling against the waves was the only other sound.

"Furen, please have a seat," Ah Yuan persuaded.

I shook my head, about to speak, when suddenly the cabin door above me swung open.

Gongyang Gui stood above, looking at me. After a moment, he sighed and said, "I knew you would be down here."

"Quick, close the cabin door!" Someone came over on the deck to intervene.

Gongyang Gui paid no mind and said leisurely, "Don't worry, I'm guarding this place. Your **Shao Furen** isn't feeling well and needs some fresh air. If you don't believe me, ask Wei **Bianque**." After saying that, he leaned his neck toward the cabin, "Isn't that right, Wei **Bianque**?"

"Yes! Exactly!" Wei Jiao seemed quite pleased that Gongyang Gui had changed how he address him, and he smiled happily.

The soldier no longer obstructed. 

"How's it going ahead? What about my husband?" I asked, not in the mood for their banter.

"Your husband is at the bow of the ship."

"Have those ships come closer?" I asked.

Gongyang Gui looked and then said, "They're getting closer." After a moment, his brows furrowed. "But I'm afraid it's not good. Those three ships are forming a formation. It seems they've figured us out."

My heart sank. "Will there be a fight?"

Gongyang Gui seemed lost in thought for a moment, then shook his head. "I don't think so."

I was stunned.

Gongyang Gui looked at me with a meaningful expression and said, "Would you like to come up and take a look?" 

The ship came to a stop.

"Mengjing," Pei Qian's voice came from the front, calm and composed, neither too loud nor too soft.

I hid in the shadow of the cabin near the door. Despite the distance, my ears had always been unusually sensitive to Pei Qian's voice.

"Jiyuan," Wei Tan said, his tone as composed as ever. If it weren't for the standoff situation ahead, I would almost have thought they were exchanging greetings on a familiar path.

"Mengjing came from afar, why the haste in leaving?"

"One has to leave." Wei Tan said in a relaxed tone, "Jiangdong's influence has grown stronger recently, and we, *being small and insignificant*, shouldn't linger for long,"

<div class="author-note">
小门小户 (xiǎo mén xiǎo hù) - poor humble families; families with limited means and without powerful connection (idiom)
</div>

Pei Qian paid no attention to his banter and said, "Mengjing has not only passed by, but also taken away our Jiangdong leader. Qian has come specially to ask for him back."

"Oh?" Wei Tan's voice still carried his nonchalant attitude. "What if I don't give him back?"

The sound of weapons being unsheathed echoed, and the atmosphere instantly grew tense.

"Mengjing, don't blame me for taking it by force," Wei Tan said.

Wei Tan sneered, "You all should take a look behind you."

Confused, I listened and asked Wei An and Gongyang Gui, who were looking around, "What's happening?"

"Your husband is truly skilled," Gongyang Gui said with interest, raising his eyes and counting, "He also brought along warships, hidden behind Pei Qian all this time and only coming out now. One, two, three... There are three of them."

"I've always said that my **Xiongzhang** is very strong," Wei An added casually.

With my heart settled, I wanted to join them in looking ahead, but the thought of the one they're confronting is Pei Qian made me feel a bit uneasy.

"Will Fujun hand Wu Kun back?" I asked.

"What would be the point of an exchange?" Wei An replied.

Gongyang Gui looked at me, and after a moment, he said, "It depends on what your husband thinks."

I was surprised and wanted to ask clearly, but I heard that Pei Qian had already spoken.

"Mengjing is indeed quite strategic," Pei Qian's voice revealed no emotion.

"When One is away from home, being vigilant is always a good idea," Wei Tan replied calmly.

"Mengjing, don't forget, this is Jiangdong's territory. Engaging in a battle here, even if Mengjing wins, it will leave you with a crippled ship and little chance of escape."

"What Jiyuan said aligns with my intentions. How about we make a deal? Jiyuan withdraws first, and after I've gone ten miles, I'll send your **Zhugong**,back in a small boat, how does that sound?"

Pei Qian chuckled, "Mengjing, isn't this deal a bit domineering? If you leave first and don't return, what should I do?"

"This is Jiangdong's territory," Wei Tan's attitude was more rascal than any I had ever seen before. "And your **Zhugong** is in my hands."

Pei Qian fell silent for a moment and then said, "I want to see **Zhugong**."

Footsteps resounded, and soon, the furious voice of Wu Kun rang out, as if he was being led forcefully, "Pei Qian! Kill him! Kill him for me!"

Pei Qian, however, seemed to pay no heed.

"I'll withdraw two ships and follow behind you," he said.

"Very well," Wei Tan responded calmly.

The sails were raised, catching the wind that blew smoothly. Even though I couldn't see the river clearly, I could feel the ship moving swiftly.

After a while, the sails were lowered, and the ship came to a halt once again. A small boat was lowered, and a soldier's voice confirmed that everything was fine. The ropes binding Wu Kun's hands were untied.

"One has caused great inconvenience to **Jiangjun**," I saw Wei Tan walk up to Wu Kun and said.

Wu Kun looked at him. The fierceness from earlier had subsided, replaced by a cold smile.

"I will lead the mighty Jiangdong army to conquer Yongzhou."

Wei Tan seemed unfazed, "If another battle is possible, **Mou** is looking forward to it."

"**Da Gongzi**, he may go down now," a soldier said.

Wei Tan nodded.

The soldiers tied the ropes around Wu Kun again and lowered him down.

"Do you know?" When Wu Kun was about to descend, he suddenly turned back, a sinister smile on his face. "Your wife smells nice."

My mind was struck like a thunderbolt, anger rising within me. I was about to step forward, but Gongyang Gui held me back.

He shook his head at me.

I could still hear Wei Tan's voice, calm as ever, "Next time **Jiangjun** rides with a lady, make sure a dagger doesn't get the better of you again."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The sails were raised again, and the wind was stronger than before, ruffling the hair. The clouds once again obscured the moon, and the boat behind with its figures appeared to drift away with the current, growing smaller and smaller in the distance.

There were many sounds around, people walking, running, talking, and laughing.

I remained seated in the corner, feeling a cool sensation.

"Go inside the cabin," Gongyang Gui said, looking down at me.

I looked at him and attempted to stand up, but I had no strength left in my body. After a moment, I shook my head.

Humiliation and anger. When I took action earlier, my main focus was on escaping, and I didn't have much room to consider anything else.

I should have thought of it earlier. I thought to myself.

But another voice chimed in, reminding me that Wu Kun's barking was baseless, and getting upset over his nonsense would be ridiculous.

"He's here," Gongyang Gui suddenly said.

Following his gaze, I saw Wei Tan standing about a dozen steps away.

"**Xiongzhang**," Wei An greeted appropriately.

Gongyang Gui nodded at him and didn't say anything. He glanced at me before walking away with Wei An.

I stared at Wei Tan intently, suddenly feeling a deep sense of grievance. It was as if something was pent up inside me. My nose tingled, and tears welled up in my eyes.

"Why are you crying again?" Wei Tan walked over, sounding helpless. "What are you doing sitting here?" As he spoke, he reached out to pull me up.

I became annoyed and forcefully pushed his hand away.

"What's wrong?" Wei Tan crouched down and held onto my arm.

I struggled and fiercely pounded my fists against his shoulder and chest.

"Why didn't you come sooner..." I choked up, as if I wanted to release all the accumulated grievances from the depths of my heart. "Why didn't you come sooner…"

Wei Tan's eyes dimmed, and he didn't evade.

"It's my fault for letting you down," he said softly.

But hearing those words, I grew even more infuriated and pushed him away. "You go away!"

Wei Tan's body tilted back from the force, but he didn't leave.

"Go away!" I pushed harder.

Wei Tan gazed at me and softly asked, "Do you really want me to leave?"

I choked with sobs.

Wei Tan stood up.

Seeing his figure about to leave, tears surged even more, and in anger, I grabbed a piece of hemp rope nearby and threw it at him. "You... you really leave!"

Wei Tan: "..."

The couch gently swayed with the movement of the ship, and beneath my pillow, the sound of flowing water was murmuring, not quiet, yet my heart was surprisingly tranquil.

The outburst of anger was like a sudden storm, arriving quickly and dissipating just as fast. So much so that in hindsight, it felt like a sinister fire had burned my mind.

After that bout of pounding, in front of everyone's gaze, Wei Tan carried me into the cabin.

He placed me on the bed and sat down beside me.

The light was dim, and our eyes met.

I still had a lump in my throat, occasionally gasping for air.

"Why aren't you talking..." I whispered. Even though I felt a bit embarrassed about the scene from earlier, after making such a fuss, it wasn't possible for me to suddenly soften.

"If Furen isn't speaking, how could **Weifu** dare to speak first?" Wei Tan said.

I glared at him.

Wei Tan suddenly started to laugh.

"You're truly like a child," he ruffled my hair, "Wu Kun's lies have become reality."

I remained silent and pulled his hand down, holding it in mine.

"Do you believe it?" I whispered softly, my eyes fixed on him.

"I don't believe it," Wei Tan's expression remained unchanged.

"Why?"

Wei Tan pulled the thin blanket on the bed over me and said, "Both Gongyang Gui and Wei Jiao have told me."

Gongyang Gui and Wei Jiao? I was momentarily surprised and felt somewhat relieved, but after a moment, I couldn't help but think to myself, those two long-tongued<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="长舌 - gossipy person
"></sup> men…

"How does Fujun know they were speaking the truth?"

"**Sidi** also confirmed it."

Me: "....."

"What if **Qie** bribed **Sishu** as well?" I continued.

Wei Tan looked at me and gave a bitter smile. Suddenly, he leaned down and pulled me into his embrace. His warm breath brushed against my ear and neck, so familiar that it softened my heart.

"Even if you bribed him, what matters is that you've returned."

My heart felt like it was gripped by something. My eyes welled up with tears, and I reached out, gently stroking his back.

It doesn't matter if it's true or false. I listened to the rhythm of his heartbeat, one high and one low, close together.

"I didn't mean to, I was just afraid..." I murmured softly, burying my face in his shoulder.

That arm tightened around me, and Wei Tan said, "Don't be afraid. From now on, I won't let you leave again."
