---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 92: Sunset (Part 2)"
order: 92
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

I looked at him. For some reason, the first thing that came to my mind was Wei An's clear and bright eyes, and his collection of small tools. I thought that after leaving Yecheng, I would have no more contact with this person (Cui Ting). Who would have thought there was still a follow-up plan?

Wei Tan held me close, his hand moving to my waist.

My lower abdomen has started to protrude a bit, but it's not very noticeable while sitting like this.

Wei Tan's hand stopped, as if he was afraid to move with force.

"He... um, will he kick?" he asked softly.

I laughed, "It's only been four months, how could he kick already?"

Wei Tan looked enlightened and asked again, "Then what can he do?"

I replied, "In these past few days, two or three times, **Qie** felt him move."

Wei Tan looked at my abdomen, his eyelashes drooping like feathers, revealing a hint of tenderness.

"Wei Jiao said that Wu Kun's soldiers were rude to you?" His voice was deep and heavy.

"En," I said, "It wasn't a big deal, luckily Jiyuan arrived in time." As I spoke, I myself was momentarily surprised. The name "Jiyuan" slipped out just like that. While it was true, he had always been a sensitive topic between Wei Tan and me.

Wei Tan didn't say anything, his grip on my arm tightening.

"Fujun is only asking about it now," I looked at him and changed the subject.

Wei Tan paused for a moment and chuckled, "Ever since you got on the ship, you've either been crying or sleeping. How could I ask?"

"Is it so? Does Fujun worry about the child a lot?"

"Of course."

I looked at him and sighed softly, "So it turns out Fujun has been thinking about the child all along, not **Qie**."

Wei Tan: "..."

For some reason, seeing him speechless, my mood lifted, and I couldn't help but laugh again.

Wei Tan also smiled, a hint of helplessness in his expression. He ruffled my hair and adjusted the clothes on me, pulling them a bit tighter.

"Why did Fujun let Wu Kun go yesterday?" I leaned against his chest and asked, "Taking him away would have been a great deed."

"En?" Wei Tan chuckled, "Does Furen despise Wu Kun deeply?"

"Fujun doesn't hate him?" I frowned as I listened.

"Hate," Wei Tan responded immediately, "If I hadn't been in Jiangdong last night, I would have sent him to meet Wu Zhang with a single slash."

That's about right, I regained my composure and tone. I also witnessed the events of last night. Even though Wei Tan had four ships, it's unwise to engage in combat on someone else's turf. Wei Tan's decision to prioritize retreat was sensible. Moreover, the other party was led by Pei Qian... Thinking of him, a sense of sorrow welled up within me. Since the events of last night, I've been worried about what Wu Kun might do to Pei Qian. After what happened last night, would he have a difficult time in Jiangdong?

I glanced at Wei Tan, who appeared relaxed. After a moment of hesitation, I asked, "From the tone of Wu Kun's words last night, it seems he already knows about Jiyuan assisting Fujun." Wei Tan looked at me, and I quickly added, "When **Sishu** and **Qie** were captured, Jiyuan had helped us multiple times, so…"

"Wu Kun won't touch him, at least not for the time being," Wei Tan's expression remained unchanged.

"Why is that?" I asked.

Wei Tan smiled lightly and said, "What does Furen think of Wu Kun's character?"

After a brief pause, I replied, "Wu Kun is strong and proud, suspicious and narrow-minded. Despite being a leader of a faction, his actions can be quite immature."

Wei Tan asked again, "How does Wu Kun treat Jiyuan?"

I opened my mouth, then stopped.

"... He has *his eyes on* Pei Qian too..." Lin Chong's words lingered in my mind, gripping it like a sudden tightening hand.
could also means fallen for one

"The foundation of the Wu clan in Jiangdong was established by Wu Zhang, who led fifty thousand local people and county troops in conquest. Wu Zhang was indecisive, so even though he held power in a region, he only occupied Huaiyang. There were no exceptionally skilled strategists among his subordinates," Wei Tan explained slowly, then his tone shifted, "However, Wu Zhang also had his strengths, namely, self-awareness."

With my heart slightly eased, since he was willing to talk, I could delve a bit deeper into the conversation.

"Self-awareness?" I asked.

Wei Tan nodded, "Wu Zhang knew he lacked talented individuals among his ranks. After Jiyuan arrived in Yangzhou, Wu Zhang personally visited him and soon appointed Jiyuan as his Chief Clerk (chief historian). This move was crucial. After Jiyuan assisted Wu Zhang, he pacified the people, developed the salt and iron industry, and brought substantial profits to Jiangdong. Even the strategies to deal with various local warlords were formulated by Jiyuan. Not to mention distant matters, last year's Wei-Wu resistance against Liang was also Jiyuan's strategy." He paused for a moment and sighed, "This year's alliance with Liang against Wei was also worked out through discussions between Jiyuan and Cui Ting."

I fell silent.

"Although Wu Kun might lack in temperament, he inherited his brother's ability to judge the situation. In the current situation, Wu Kun won't do anything to Jiyuan, even if he bears some resentment," Wei Tan explained.

"But he already harbors suspicions towards Jiyuan," I said, "And some of the people under his command also have different opinions about Jiyuan. One afraids there might be difficult times ahead."

Wei Tan said slowly, "I would actually prefer that day to come sooner." He looked at me and continued, "Jiyuan is a person who values gratitude and righteousness. Wu Zhang entrusted him with important responsibilities, which he has always carried with a sense of indebtedness. That's why even though he understands that Wu Kun isn't a capable leader, he stays. The only one who could drive him away is Wu Kun."

I looked at him, "Does Fujun intend to bring Ji Yuan into the court?"

"That depends on his own intentions," Wei Tan met my gaze, "Whether he comes to the court or leaves, both options are more advantageous to me than him staying in Jiangdong."

The sunset had already dipped below the horizon, casting a last glow, reflecting in Wei Tan's eyes as a deep hue.

I understand that we've discussed enough about Pei Qian. With one nod, we stop talking.

Perhaps due to this conversation, I suddenly lost interest in enjoying the scenery.

It's not that I find Wei Tan's words too direct, but regardless of the past or the present, Pei Qian carries a heavy burden. Every time I think of him, it feels like there's something weighty pressing on my heart.

Wei Tan didn't say much more either. Not long after, Cheng Mao and a few sergeants came to discuss matters with him. Sensibly, I walked away.

While in Yecheng, many of Gongyang Gui and others' clothes were worn out. In her free time, Ah Yuan helped them mend their clothes.

I also helped Ah Yuan with the sewing, but perhaps due to being pregnant, even though I had slept for most of the day, I found myself yawning as the moon reached its zenith.

Contrary to my expectations, not long after I returned to the cabin, Wei Tan came back as well. He was drenched all over, resembling a soaked figure. Water trickled down from his hair, and the wet clothing clung to his body, outlining his strong and tall physique…

The ship seemed to sway for a moment.

"How did Fujun end up like this?" I looked away and quickly fetched some dry cloth for him.

"Took a bath in the river," Wei Tan's tone was casual. As he spoke, he effortlessly removed his upper garment and pants.

In the instant his pants slipped down his hips, I turned my head away, pretending to tidy up the dry clothes, concealing the heat that rose to my cheeks.

Taking off his clothes without giving a prior warning, not even checking if the door was securely closed... Rascal, I thought to myself.

But when the sound of him changing behind me ceased, I turned around only to find Wei Tan standing shirtless. In the candlelight, his robust chest gleamed with a tan hue, his firm abdomen stretched downward, the pants loosely tied at his waist, igniting one's imagination…

"We've already entered Xin'an a moment ago," Wei Tan said as he continued to dry his hair with the cloth, "Tomorrow, we'll reach Runan."

"En," I replied. As he turned around, I suddenly noticed a scar on his back.

"You're injured?" I hurried forward, asking in surprise.

"En?" Wei Tan turned his head, glanced at his back, and calmly said, "En. When we left Qiling, I was hit by an arrow. Luckily, I had armor on, so the wound wasn't deep. It's already healed."

I couldn't help but feel uneasy. I placed my hand on the scar and asked, "Does it hurt?"

Wei Tan appeared nonchalant, "When One is out in battle, having a few wounds is nothing special... ouch!" He hadn't finished speaking when I pinched the wound.

"You woman!" he glared at me.

I didn't reply, but my nose tingled, looking at him with a hint of mist in my eyes.

"En?... Why are you crying again?" Wei Tan looked puzzled, quickly reaching to wipe the corner of my eyes. He sighed, "It's really not serious, it's been just over a month since this injury, it hasn't fully healed yet... Don't cry."

I stepped forward, wrapping my arms around his waist, and buried my head in his chest. "During that time, I worried about you every day... I was so scared…"

Wei Tan didn't respond, but his arms held me tightly. In his chest, I could only hear the strong and steady sound of his heartbeat.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Xin'an was part of Wei Jue's territory. Arriving here, the people on the ship no longer needed to guard against anyone sneaking up on them. Wei Tan even stayed with me in the cabin, from dusk until dawn.

The next morning, the sails on the boat were once again unfurled as we set off for Runan. The boat sailed swiftly, covering a thousand miles in a day. By evening, the city of Runan was already visible. The soldiers anchored the boat by the shore, and we could see that carriages and horses were prepared at the riverside. The county magistrate of Ru'an, along with his deputy and chief officer, came to greet us.

<div class="author-note">
汝南 (Rǔnán): This refers to the Commandery or Prefecture (郡 jùn or 州 zhōu).<br>
汝安 (Rǔ'ān): This refers to a specific County (县 xiàn) located within the greater Ru'nan region.
</div>

"**Xianzhang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="县长-county magistrate"></sup> is too polite," Wei Jiao said. "**Mou** have a guest arriving here recently; One wonders if **Xiabzhang** has seen them?"

The county magistrate revealed a knowing smile and said, "The guest has already arrived. Ten li (≈5km) away on the river, there is a towered ship anchored."

