---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 93: Runan"
order: 93
novel_title: Daughter-in-law of a Noble House
toc_url: /DILOANH/
---

"Is **Da Gongzi** going now?" Cheng Mao asked.

Wei Tan glanced at him and smiled faintly, "They are more anxious than us. We'll talk again tomorrow."

Ru'an is a small county, and the houses where we stayed in the city are about the same size as those in Yecheng. However, upon entering, the atmosphere is *as far apart as heaven and earth*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="天壤之别(tiānrǎngzhībié) (idiom)"></sup>. Compared to the previous state of anxiety and unease, it feels like a world of difference.

After the meal, Wei Tan went to the hall to discuss matters with his generals and the county magistrate, while I remained in the backyard.

Wei Jiao, being a competent *Bianque*, insisted that I had been traveling all the way, so he needed to examine my pulse.

"How is it?" I asked. 

"The fetal position is stable, but Furen has some qi deficiency, likely due to running around recently," he confidently replied. "**Mou** will prescribe a remedy and prepare some nourishing soup."

I nodded, raised my eyes, and saw Wei An standing inside the courtyard, seemingly gazing at something, his thoughts unclear.

"Is **Sishu** waiting for Fujun?" I walked out and asked.

"En," Wei An said, after a moment, he looked at me, "**Zhangsao**, I heard that Cui **Gongzi** is outside the city."

I nodded, "That's exactly so." Then, I looked at the joy on his face and smiled, "Does **Sishu** want to retrieve those tools?" 

Wei An scratched his head, "En."

I thought about giving Wei An a subtle hint to keep his distance from Cui Ting but seeing the hopeful expression on Wei An's face, I felt that it might be bad if this **Zhangsao** says too much.

Wei Tan returned not too late. After bathing, he blew out the lamp and climbed onto the bed.

I wasn't ready to sleep yet. In the darkness, I looked at him and asked, "After Fujun settles things with Cui Ting, are we going back to Yongdu?"

"En," Wei Tan propped his head on his arm and said, "There are many matters to attend to in Yongdu, so we should return as soon as possible."

I thought about it and agreed. Although Wei Tan didn't say much to me about the Battle of Qiling, the deaths of Wei Xian and Wei Lang alone had dealt a significant blow to the Wei clan. There had always been many people at court who were dissatisfied with the Wei clan, and Wei Jue was only able to maintain control because of the Wei military power. With the Wei army now weakened, there were likely many in the court who were happy.

Suddenly, I thought of the Emperor.

Memories of the events on the Shangsi Festival surfaced in my heart, and I thought about his gray hair. I couldn't help but sigh silently.

"Don't want to go back?" Wei Tan's face was close, his voice soft and low.

I curved my lips into a smile, gazing at his dimly outlined profile. After a moment, I inched closer to him and gently held his hand.

"It would be good if there were no more wars," I said.

"Hmm?" Wei Tan's breath brushed against me, and he seemed to smile. "If there were no more wars, how would Furen like it?"

Memories of childhood fantasies sparked my mind, and I said, "If there is peace in the future, **Qie** will take a carriage and travel from Chang'an to the east."

"To the east?" Wei Tan asked, "Where would you travel to?"

"To the seaside," I said, "If **Sishu** can build a towered ship, we could even go out to sea to see the Immortal Mountains."
<div class="author-note">
仙山(xiānshān) - Immortal Mountains. In Chinese mythology and folklore, these are often depicted as mystical and beautiful mountainous areas where immortals, supernatural beings, or deities are believed to reside.
</div>

"Oh?" Wei Tan chuckled.

"Has Fujun ever seen the sea?" I asked.

"Seen it," Wei Tan replied, with a playful tone. "It's vast, no doubt, but the seaside is mostly mudflats and huge rocks. I've never glimpsed any Immortal Mountains." After that, he said, "So, what should **Weifu** do while Furen goes on your excursion?"

I toyed with his fingers and playfully said, "**Qie** still needs a skilled driver and protector. If Fujun is willing, **Qie** could also bring Fujun along."

Wei Tan couldn't help but chuckle and pulled me closer, saying leisurely, "Is that all?"

I thought for a moment and replied, "En."

"What about the child?" His hand was wandering on my waist.

"A child is no trouble at all; **Qie** can bring him along..." I said, quickly catching his hand trying to sneak beneath my clothes.

"One is not enough," Wei Tan reached back and caught my arm, as he leaned closer.

The kiss had been long-awaited and passionate. We had been apart for a while, and this intimacy was something we both yearned for. I responded with my lips and tongue, savoring the joy of closeness. After our breaths had calmed, he sat up, kissing my neck gently while his hands moved to undo my clothing.

His palm caressed my skin, calloused fingers teasing my sensitive areas, complementing the lingering kisses and creating a delightful sensation. However, when his hand ventured between my legs, I suddenly snapped out of the trance and quickly grabbed his hand.

"The child..." My voice was hoarse.

Wei Tan lowered his head, biting my earlobe, and his voice was muffled, "I asked Wei Jiao, and he said we can take it slowly, gently, and it would be fine..."

I opened my mouth, about to speak, but Wei Tan murmured softly, "Ah Jin..." His voice was gentle and seductive, leaving my words trapped in my parched throat…

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The horse-drawn carriage rumbled along the streets of the county town. I leaned against a railing, gazing at the street scenes and passersby.

"Why is Furen so quiet?" Ah Yuan said with a playful smile. "Furen, One heard that we'll be returning to Yongdu in two days, is that true?"

"En" I replied.

"Did Furen not sleep well last night?" Ah Yuan looked at me.

"It was alright," I replied.

"Then why do you seem a bit weak?" Ah Yuan appeared concerned, reaching out to touch my forehead. "Could it be that you've caught a chill?"

I gently removed her hand, saying, "It's fine, it's fine." Then, I leaned against the railing once more.

Indeed, I felt a bit weak, or more precisely, sore.

Thoughts of last night flashed through my mind, and my ears grew slightly warm. While I had longed for intimacy, I had been avoiding it as much as possible for the sake of the child these past days. Unfortunately, my efforts were not enough, as Wei Tan, that rascal, had learned the art of *acting spoiled*…
<div class="author-note">
撒娇(sa jiao) - a coquettish or playful behavior, often used by someone to act cute, sweet, or affectionate in order to gain someone's favor or attention. 
</div>

Wei Tan was very patient. He placed me on his lap, entered slowly, moved gently, and asked if I felt any pain. I felt both shy and embarrassed, with my mind focused on the child. Whenever I thought it was getting too fast or too intense, I would quickly voice my concerns. Despite the inconvenience, Wei Tan didn't lose his enthusiasm. He kissed my back, lightly nibbled my neck, and placed his hands on my chest... The process was slow and sensual, yet my body remained sensitive, feeling hot and intimately connected to his sweat…

"Furen, we've arrived." While lost in thought, the carriage came to a stop, and voices from outside could be heard.

Ah Yuan helped me out of the carriage, and I saw a wide river ahead with a grand ship docked on it, which was Cui Ting's boat. Along the riverbank, *ancient trees* formed a natural canopy, and peculiar rocks and clear springs created an enchanting scene. Beneath the trees, Ah Yuan and others were moving about.
<div class="author-note">
古树 (gushu)- "ancient tree" refers to very old, often majestic and long-standing trees that have been around for a considerable number of years.
</div>

Up ahead, Wei Tan had dismounted from his horse and was looking at me with a playful glint in his eyes. Perhaps he felt a bit guilty. When we woke up in the morning, he had grinned at me and mentioned that just outside of Ru'an city was a renowned picturesque area in Runan. He asked if I'd like to go there together. Despite feeling tired, staying at home held no appeal, so I followed him out.

Wei An followed along and as soon as he got off the carriage, he started looking around at the figures ahead.

"**Da Gongzi**, **Si Gongzi**, Fu Furen." As we reached the spring's edge, we saw Cui Ting seated beside a naturally-formed stone platform, smiling and offering a greeting.

"Cui **Gongzi**," Wei Tan returned the greeting with a smile.

They addressed each other '**Gongzi**', like old friends who had chanced upon each other. However, the presence of the soldiers surrounding them made this meeting appear out of the ordinary.

"Ting heard that **Si Gongzi ** nd Fu Furen escaped unharmed, One is greatly relieved," he said, looking at Wei An with a calm expression. 

Wei An looked at him and nodded, saying, "En."

Cui Ting smiled and said to Wei Tan, "One recall the past when Ting and **Da Gongzi** played chess at Yunshi **Xiansheng**'s residence, and our game ended in a stalemate. Today, as we meet again, shall we have another match?" With that, he raised his hand toward the stone platform. On the platform, a chessboard was engraved, covered with a mix of black and white pieces, as if it were an unfinished game.

Wei Tan's gaze remained calm as he smiled, "It would be impolite to decline."

Cui Ting hailed from a prestigious background, and he had the demeanor of a cultured gentleman. The babbling spring added to the ambiance, and the two young attendants he brought with him, one with a fan and the other playing the zither, managed to bring a touch of elegance to this place surrounded with weapons.

The melodious zither music, accompanied by the sound of the flowing spring, created a pleasant and leisurely atmosphere.

I sat on a cushion, leaning against a small table, watching the intense competition unfolding on the chessboard.

Both of them sat upright, their expressions serious and focused. They played slowly, carefully considering each move. The sound of the chess pieces being placed was faint and crisp, and the ever-shifting dynamics between the black and white pieces were already in flux.

Wei An seemed to enjoy watching the game even more than I did. He sat beside the stone platform, just like the two players, his gaze unwavering.

"Cui **Gongzi**, *you let me win*." Wei Tan said slowly, placing a piece on the board.
<div class="author-note">
承让(chéngràng)-often said to the opponent after winning the match 
</div>

Cui Ting looked at the chessboard, his expression subtly changing. After a while, he smiled and shook his head, saying, "**Da Gongzi** reputation as a skilled chess player is well-deserved. Ting is humbled in comparison."

Wei Tan replied, "Tan is merely an average player, with occasional insights, all thanks to the guidance of Yunshi **Xiansheng**."

Cui Ting instructed his attendants to put away the chess pieces and looked at Wei Tan, saying, "**Da Gongzi** must also have insights into the overall situation of the world."

Wei Tan smiled modestly and replied, "One dare not."

Cui Ting said, "The three counties of Xin'an are also part of **Da Gongzi**'s chessboard."

Wei Tan looked at him and replied, "The same goes for Cui **Gongzi**."

The two men exchanged a meaningful glance, their smiles carrying an unspoken understanding.

"Ting still owes **Si Gongzi** something," Cui Ting turned to Wei An, his lips curving, and he took out an item from his sleeve, which happened to be the leather bag that Wei An used to carry his tools.

Wei An accepted it, inspecting it, and replied, "En."

"Doesn't **Si Gongzi** want to open and take a look?" Cui Ting's gaze was gentle.

Wei An opened it and was momentarily surprised. He took out three tools, each with a different shape, all of them brand new.

"These were work made by Ting during One's leisure time," Cui Ting said with a smile, "They are more efficient for drilling, chiseling, planing, and sawing than ordinary tools. So it should be useful to **Si Gongzi**."

Wei An's eyes sparkled, and his face blushed slightly.

"Thank you very much, Cui **Gongzi**." He put down the leather bag, and his smile was unusually radiant.

Cui Ting looked at him, his lips curving deeply.

"Now that the matter entrusted by **Zhugong** is complete, Ting shall take One's leave." He withdrew his gaze and gave a bow to Wei Tan.

Wei Tan returned the courtesy and said, "Safe travels, Cui **Gongzi**. One won't see you off."

Cui Ting bid farewell to Wei An and me, and Wei An looked at him, seeming somewhat reluctant to part ways.

"I will build the towered ship." Wei An suddenly stepped forward as the attendants were helping Cui Ting onto the carriage.

Cui Ting turned to look at him, his gaze profound, and said, "Ting eagerly await **Si Gongzi**'s craftsmanship."

On the way back to the city, I pondered for a long time but couldn't understand why Cui Ting had come to Runan just to play chess with Wei Tan?

When we got off the carriage, I couldn't help but ask Wei Tan, "It seems Fujun didn't discuss the transfer of Xin'an with Cui **Gongzi**."

"No need to discuss," Wei Tan replied. "Last night, Liang Wen had already sent troops to take control of the three counties."

I was surprised and pondered for a moment, then said, "Then why did Cui Ting bother to come?"

Wei Tan smiled with some hidden meaning and glanced at Wei An.

Wei An was lowering his head, walking while examining one of the newly crafted tools.

"Did Ah An make an agreement with Cui **Gongzi** to build towering ships?" Wei Tan asked.

Wei An nodded, "En. I want to build better ones to defeat Liang Wen."

"Cui **Gongzi** knew that **Si Gongzi** is exceptionally talented, yet he still gave gifts and made an agreement. He's indeed an honorable gentleman," Ah Yuan chimed in beside me.

Wei An nodded slightly and gazed in the direction they had come from, his expression seemingly deeper.

"Hey! How can you just bump into me like this on the road!" Not far away, a man pulling a cart had collided with another driving an ox cart, and the cart-puller was complaining.

"Oh dear, sorry, my ox is new to the road and doesn't obey orders!"

"Be more careful, look here, all the cabinets on my cart have come out..."

"Let's go inside," Wei Tan said, taking my hand.

"Yes," I withdrew my gaze from the commotion and entered the courtyard with him.
