---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 2"
snippet: "My Third Brother’s wedding is imminent; it is high time he learned of the affairs between men and women."
order: 2
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Upon arriving at Jiaxiang Courtyard, Nanny Su took the tea cup from the maid's hand and offered it to Yin Furen, then proceeded to give her a shoulder and back massage.

Yin Furen lowered her head and took half a cup of tea before catching her breath, then said irritably, "Still need to ask his third sister to come back and advise him! Back then, that wretched girl protected him and that little seductress. It nearly drove me to death with anger!"

Nanny Su chuckled and said, "That's why **Laonu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this old servant"></sup> believes that perhaps only **San Guniang**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Third Young Miss"></sup> words can penetrate **San Yé**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Third Master"></sup> heart now, because only **San Guniang** has spoken to that person surnamed Pang on his behalf. Besides, when **San Guniang** was helping **San Yé** speak to the person surnamed Pang, do *you* think she truly approved of **San Yé** being with that person surnamed Pang? Wasn't it because she felt sorry for **San Yé**, seeing him cry so pitifully, with no one in the residence helping him, that she pleaded on his behalf? **San Guniang** understands this clearly in her heart! *Your* own daughter, don't *you* understand her yourself?"

Yin Furen set down her tea cup, sighed heavily, and worriedly said, "How could I not understand? It's just that, I've raised several girls so well, why is it that I couldn't raise this son properly?"

Nanny Su thought to herself: *You've raised several girls strictly, so naturally they've grown up well. But when it comes to this **San Yé**, the only legitimate son of the First Branch, and also the youngest son, you're afraid that he will bump into things, hurt himself, or become tired. But you are also eager for him to excel in both scholarly and martial pursuits. Without bitter cold, how can there be the fragrance of plum blossoms? If you could raise him perfectly under such circumstances, wouldn’t it be weirder?*

However, she didn't dare to say this out loud. Instead, she simply remarked, "**San Yé** is still quite young, and unfortunately encountered someone like that person surnamed Pang, who harbours evil intention. That's why he's behaving like this. Once he gets past this hurdle, he will naturally understand that *you* are the one truly looking out for his best interests."

Yin Furen raised her head and glanced at Nanny Hou, who was eagerly awaiting her decision. She said, "Go and tell him, just say what I said: ‘If he refuses to eat and starves himself, then so be it. I'll consider it as if I never bore him as my son.’ Later on, quietly bring him some snacks and tell him that my restraint from dealing with that little witch with the surname Pang is because I'm concerned about him. If he comes to any harm due to hunger, then I won't care about anything else."

After Nanny Hou left, Yin Furen instructed Nanny Su, "Later, send someone to Ding **Guogong** Residence to inform **San Guniang** and ask her to come back tomorrow to check on her younger brother. I'm feeling tired, help me inside to lie down for a while."

Nanny Su supported Yin Furen as she lay down on the soft couch in the inner room, then covered her with a woolen blanket.

Yin Furen said worriedly, "Whether it's me or his third sister, there's always a barrier between us and him. Even if we deal with that woman with the surname Pang this time, there will be others surnamed Li or Wang next time. As long as their treacherous hearts remain, there will always be a way. The most important thing is whether the people close to him can influence and protect him."

Seeing her furrowed brow forming a shallow "川" character (frowning), Nanny Su couldn't help but advise her softly, "Furen, don't worry too much. The Xu family’s **Da Guniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Eldest Young lady"></sup>, didn’t **Laonu** accompany *you* to secretly see her at the market before? She's not inferior in appearance to that woman with the surname Pang, and she exudes even more grace and competence. Although her family background may be a bit humble, she was personally arranged by **Guogong Yé**. No one dares to say anything about it. Xu Family’s **Laoyé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="old master"></sup> has passed away for many years, and Zheng Furen is often ill. The family relies entirely on this daughter to support them, so she must have some capabilities."

Yin Furen gave a cold laugh and said, "What's the use of being poised and competent? When it comes to men, who doesn't love a bit of *three parts fox charm*!"
<div class="author-note">
三分狐媚 (sān fēn hú mèi)a coy or flirtatious demeanor that is charming and alluring, often associated with seductiveness or coquettishness.
</div>

Nanny Su knew that Yin Furen was once again thinking of Concubine Du, who had been favored by **Da Laoyé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Eldest Old Master"></sup> for many years, so she dared not continue the conversation.

As the eldest daughter-in-law of the First Branch of Jing **Guogong** Residence, Yin Furen managed the household's finances. She worked tirelessly from before dawn until almost mid-morning, ensuring that all matters concerning the entire household were properly arranged.

At this moment, her third daughter, Zhao Jiazhen, arrived. In her early twenties, she wore a rose-red satin jacket with gold accents on the outside, paired with a pink embroidered peony round-collar jacket and a pink embroidered orchid pleated skirt on the inside. She appeared before Yin Furen in such a flamboyant and eye-catching manner.

Yin Furen had just taken a sip of tea when she saw her daughter. Feeling a mixture of joy and resentment, she said, "You wretched girl, are you purposely arriving at such a time?"

Zhao Jiazhen dismissed the maid who had come with her and came over to lean affectionately on Yin Furen's arm. She said coquettishly, "Of course I timed my arrival. If I came earlier, *you*'d be busy. Would you have time for me then?"

After exchanging a few jokes, and seeing Yin Furen's furrowed brow relax a bit, Zhao Jiazhen finally asked, "Has **San Di**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Third younger brother"></sup> eaten today?"

Upon hearing this, Yin Furen became irritated, saying, "Whether he eats or not, it's his own choice. He won't starve others anyway. So who cares?"

Zhao Jiazhen put aside her playful demeanor and said, "My dear mother, it's already this late. Don't just be angry with **San Di**. **Zufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="paternal grandfather"></sup> has always looked down on his weak character, but we can't let him be completely disfavored by **Zufu** because of this. After all, that Fifth Branch... can really please **Zufu**."

"I couldn't be more aware that this is the most pressing matter right now, could I? But your **San Di** is currently as obstinate as a pig, refusing to listen to reason!" Yin Furen sighed heavily.

"After receiving Nanny Su's letter last night, I spent the whole night pondering. I've come up with a temporary solution. I'll personally deliver **San Di**’s lunch later." Zhao Jiazhen said.

"What's the temporary solution?" 

Zhao Jiazhen leaned in and whispered something to Yin Furen.

Yin Furen looked doubtful and asked, "Will… that work?"

Zhao Jiazhen picked up the tea that Nanny Su had brought and casually said, "Right now, **San Di** and that woman with the surname Pang are like travelers in the dark, unable to see even a glimmer of hope. At a time like this, even the faintest ray of light would be desperately grasped by him. However, now that we have this plan, it's necessary to inform my future **San Dixi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="xi here means wife; wife of San Di (third younger brother)"></sup> in advance. Marrying beneath one's status is fine, but she mustn't be foolish. There is more than enough room for failure if one doesn't succeed.”

Yin Furen, holding her handkerchief, looked troubled.

Zhao Jiazhen hurriedly said, "Mom, as the mother-in-law, *you* must maintain *your* dignity. Naturally, you cannot personally talk to my **San Dixi** about this matter. Leave it to me. I guarantee that I will handle it properly for you."

Yin Furen sighed and said, "Given her family background, I don't expect her to bring any benefits to your **San Di** in the future. I only hope that she can help your **San Di** fend off the hidden arrows aimed at him from that side. That would be a great achievement."
<br>

At noon, Zhao Jiazhen, accompanied by the maid carrying the meal, arrived at the western courtyard and entered the inner room on the left. The room was unlit as the windows were closed, casting a dim atmosphere. On the bed, a person lay facing inward, their long black hair spread out like a python on the pillow. Upon hearing someone enter the room, he remained motionless.

"Put down the meal and leave," Zhao Jiazhen instructed the maid.

Upon recognizing her voice, the figure on the bed stirred, turning over to reveal a face with sunken eye sockets and pale lips. Despite this, the face remained as beautiful as a delicate pear, evoking pity at the sight.

Zhao Jiazhen sighed inwardly. Despite her Third Younger Brother's numerous flaws, there was one thing that others couldn't compare with him—the extraordinary beauty he possessed.

"How long has it been since you opened the windows? The air in this room is almost stale," she said as she walked over and opened the window.

Zhao Huanxi was stung by the brilliant sunlight streaming into the room, causing his eyes to ache. Tears welled up at the corners of his eyes, and he raised his hand to shield them with his sleeve, saying, "Did Mom call you back to persuade me? Hmph, don't bother!"

Zhao Jiazhen walked to the bedside and slapped him hard. 

Zhao Huanxi moved his sleeve away, revealing his exquisitely contoured phoenix eyes wide open, displaying a translucent watery glint unique to youth. He looked at her in astonishment, his fair left cheek bearing a red mark like the pressure pressed on the pillow.

"You didn't even call me **San Jie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Third older sister"></sup>, did I provoke or offend you? When the incident with you and Pang Daixue happened, and you were scolded by our parents, wasn't it only me who defended you?" Zhao Jiazhen said angrily, hands on her hips.

As Zhao Jiazhen spoke, Zhao Huanxi felt a twinge of shame. With disheveled hair cascading around his head, he slowly sat up from the bed, his long and dense eyelashes drooping low. He muttered softly, "Of course, I remember **San Jie**'s protection at that time. It's just... It's just... I've never even seen that Xu family girl before, and I really don't want to marry her. I heard that the Xu family is also declining. Since **Zufu** and our parents don't care about family background, why can't it be someone else? I just want to marry someone I can get along with. Is that such a big deal?" As he spoke, his eyes reddened, and tears began to fall like golden beans.

He was originally born with beauty, and now as he cried, it was like broken jade and flowing pearls, breaking the hearts of those who saw him.

Zhao Jiazhen couldn't help but roll her eyes.

This silly younger brother of hers always defied the family. The Xu family girl was chosen as the betrothal partner because **Zufu** and the Xu family's **Laoyé** had an instant connection and became close friends, not to mention that the Xu family, despite their decline, originated from the legitimate line of the Count of Zhongyi Mansion. Did he really think that any commoner's daughter could become the legitimate granddaughter-in-law of the Zhao family?

Considering her younger brother's temperament, she had to patiently sit down at the edge of the bed, wiping his tears with a handkerchief as she said, "It's fortunate that I came back. Otherwise, you wouldn't know what kind of trouble you'd be in."

Zhao Huanxi's shoulders, which were originally trembling slightly, stiffened. He raised his rabbit-like eyes and looked anxiously at Zhao Jiazhen, asking, "What do you mean? Are they causing trouble for Daixue? Fine, if you all say she harmed me, I'll insist on protecting her!" With that, he jumped out of bed and rushed outside. Despite his slender figure appearing fragile like a willow in the wind, no one expected that he would move as swiftly as a startled rabbit as soon as he leaped.

Zhao Jiazhen was startled and quickly grabbed his arm, saying, "Why are you so impulsive now? *Just speak of rain and expecting rain*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="don’t come to conclusion"></sup>. Pang **Guniang** is fine, she's just restricted to the Furong Pavilion and not allowed to leave freely. But if you keep causing a scene like this, things might change."

Zhao Huanxi stopped in his tracks, wanting to say something in a fit of pique. However, as he looked at his Third Sister, who had always loved him dearly, he found himself unable to utter those words. A sense of stifling frustration filled his heart.

Taking advantage of the opportunity, Zhao Jiazhen pulled him to the table and gently pressed him to sit on the chair. She spoke softly, "Last time, it was because of **Da Ge**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Eldest brother"></sup> and **Da Sao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Eldest brother's wife"></sup>'s plea, coupled with our parents repeatedly assuring that within three months, you would be engaged to the Xu family girl, that **Zufu** didn't chase Pang **Guniang** away. Now that you're causing such a commotion, it's only because Mom is protecting you. But if even a hint of this reaches **Zufu**'s ears, imagine what will happen to Pang **Guniang**. Let's be clear, even if the sky collapses, she is nothing more than **Da Sao**’s distant Biao cousin, not a legitimate relative of our family. Once she's chased out of the mansion, she'll be left with nothing. Besides getting married, what other options does she have to survive? Wouldn't that sever your fate with her? If you truly want to be with her, stop causing trouble and marry the Xu family girl obediently."

Originally, Zhao Huanxi's eyes were dull and his expression was blank. Upon hearing the words "obediently", he chuckled self-deprecatingly, "Haven't I been obedient enough for over ten years? What good has it brought me?"

Hearing his words, Zhao Jiazhen also felt uncomfortable. If it weren't for the past being suppressed too much, he wouldn't have been so reckless this time.

As she combed his long hair with her hands, Zhao Jiazhen gently advised him, "Stop insisting on not marrying Xu **Guniang** for the sake of Pang **Guniang**. The engagement with Xu Family **Da Guniang** was **Zufu**'s decision. Do you think our parents are happy about it? Even if it's not Xu Family **Da Guniang**, it’s diffinitely won't be Pang **Guniang** either. But if it's not Xu Family **Da Guniang**, then between you and Pang **Guniang**, there won’t be any more hope."

Zhao Huanxi stared blankly into space, his expression indifferent. "There wasn't much hope for these days to begin with," he said dully.

Seeing him like this, Zhao Jiazhen felt even more sorry for him. She continued in a gentler tone, "Stop causing trouble. Just marry Xu **Guniang** obediently and treat her kindly. Discuss with her whatever you want to do. The Xu family might not be as wealthy, but if she is sensible, she won't oppose you. Besides, you've never met Xu **Guniang**. Who knows she may be a good match for you and can get along with you better than Pang **Guniang**?"

Zhao Huanxi remained silent for a while, and then said, "I know what to do."

"That's good," Zhao Jiazhen said as she continued to comb his hair. "Eat your meal properly. Look at yourself now. If you're still like this on the day of the wedding, Xu Family **Da Guniang** won't be willing to marry you. Even if she does, she won't be willing to consider your feelings. With **Zufu**'s support in the residence, you can't divorce her, then you'll never be satisfied with yourself."

After a moment, Zhao Jiazhen returned to Yin Furen's room. Yin Furen was eagerly awaiting news, and when she saw Zhao Jiazhen return, she hurriedly asked, "How is it? Did he agree to eat?"

Zhao Jiazhen replied, "Yes, he agreed and finished his meal."

Yin Furen breathed a sigh of relief, overwhelmed with joy. "In the end, it's your ability that make it"

Zhao Jiazhen, however, didn't share Yin Furen's joy. She said, "I managed to persuade him for now, but there's still over two months until the wedding. I'm afraid that during this time, there might be some other trouble from the Pang's side, and he'll cause a scene again."

Yin Furen became worried again. "What should we do? This method we used today can't be used indefinitely," she lamented.

Zhao Jiazhen stepped aside to ensure privacy, her cheeks flushing as she asked Yin Furen in a low voice, "Mom, **San Di**, he,... has he ever been close to a woman’s body?"

Yin Furen nodded slightly, then suddenly realized, "Are you suggesting... we find him a *Tongfang* girl?"
<div class="author-note">
通房 (tōng fáng) refers to a maid or servant girl who serves their master in the bed.
</div>

Zhao Jiazhen continued, "With **San Di**'s wedding approaching, he should be aware of such matters. We could arrange a Tongfang for him under this pretext. Even if **Zufu** finds out, it wouldn't be easy for him to say anything. Once a young man has experienced intimacy with a woman, he might not be as preoccupied with that Pang girl. However, we must carefully consider the candidate. With the Pang girl already in the picture, the appearance and figure of the Tongfang shouldn't be too inferior. Her temperament should be docile as well, to avoid causing unrest in **San Di**’s household before the wedding and inviting **Zufu**'s reproach."

Yin Furen pondered for a moment before nodding slowly. "That makes sense."

