---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 5"
snippet: "Let's us pretend to be husband and wife, and divorce after three years."
order: 5
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Zhao Huanxi had just cried, so his mind was still a bit confused, but he could still grasp the main points. 

Marrying Xu Nian'an fulfilled his grandfather's wish, and there would be no more conflicts in the family. Pretending to be married to Xu Nian'an, naturally she wouldn’t be pregnant, so when the time came, he could use her lack of pregnancy as a reason for divorce, which would hold up. After divorcing, as long as Daixue hadn't married yet, if he begged his parents earnestly, they might agree.

With this in mind, this plan is still very feasible, much better than waiting for Xu Nian'an to enter the door and then taking Daixue as a concubine.

The only two questions now are: Can Daixue endure the three years of waiting? And what will Xu Nian'an's future be like after the divorce? At least Daixue still has someone to rely on, whereas Xu Nian'an, who will be left with nothing after the divorce, seems even more pitiful in comparison.

"Three years, wouldn't that be too long? I'm afraid..."

"You're afraid Daixue **Guniang** won't be able to wait? One wonders how old Daixue **Guniang** is now?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"She's the same age as me, sixteen."

"Then three years later, she'll only be one year older than I am now. If she truly loves you, why wouldn't she be able to wait? Speaking shamelessly, if there were a handsome and devoted man like you who loved me as much as your stronger-than-gold love for her, let alone three years, I can wait for my whole life."

Zhao Huanxi's face turned red, showing a bit of embarrassed annoyance at being teased.

Xu Nian'an continued to reason with him: "Don't think that I intentionally delayed her (marriage) age. Think about it, our marriage was arranged by your **Zufu**. If I don't conceive within a year of entering the household, do you think **Zufu** will agree to our divorce? He will definitely seek medical advice, consult doctors to treat me. As everyone knows, the process of treating infertility is lengthy. If after two years of treatment there is still no success, then it's time to give up hope. However, it may not necessarily need to wait for three years. At that time, we'll assess the situation. If circumstances allow, we can divorce earlier."

Zhao Huanxi found the reasoning convincing and then looked at her, asking, "Then, after the divorce…. what will you do?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "This involves the two conditions I mentioned earlier. Our marriage was unwanted by both of us, so it wouldn't be fair if all the benefits ended up in your favor. My first condition is that even though our marriage is a sham, you must treat me with the respect and dignity I deserve within the household. You cannot allow others to see that we are a fake couple and thus mistreat me. In return, I will cover for you and ensure that you and your Daixue **Guniang** can meet frequently and confide in each other."

Zhao Huanxi hurriedly responded, "I can do that."

Xu Nian'an nodded her head, and continued：“The second condition is, when we divorce, you must provide me with a house. It doesn't need to be too large, a courtyard or a small residence will suffice, just somewhere for me to live. It should be in a relatively safe location, as I'm concerned about my security. Additionally, you must also provide me with a shop or two, so I have a means of livelihood. If I encounter difficulties, I expect the Jing **Guogong** Residence to take care of me, ensuring that I can live alone in the capital city."

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment and said to Xu Nian'an, "Currently, I don't have any personal assets, but before our divorce, I'll find a way to make proper arrangements for you."

"So, we agreed on this?" Xu Nian'an confirmed with him.

"It's settled then. No one is allowed to back out. Pinky promise." Zhao Huanxi extended his slender, fair finger earnestly.

Xu Nian'an: "....", then she extended she slender, fair finger to hook with Zhao Huanxi's, and together they made a solemn oath: "Pinky promise, for a hundred years without change. Whoever breaks it is a little *wangba*!" After saying that, they sealed the promise by pressing their thumbs together.
<div class="author-note">
小王八 (xiǎo wángba): Literally "little turtle" or "little tortoise". Wángba (turtle) is a very offensive term. It was associated with cuckoldry or being a bastard. calling someone a "Little Turtle" (小王八) is the standard "penalty" for breaking a promise.
<br>Think of it like this: If you break our agreement, you lose your dignity and become a "turtle."
</div>

After making the promise, Zhao Huanxi seemed to relax as if he had just accomplished a major life event. His whole demeanor visibly eased.

Xu Nian'an reminded him, "When you go back, don't conceal your plans. As long as you tell your mother that you've agreed to this marriage proposal, she won't blame you or the servants around you. The peonies here are quite well grown. Later, you can pick two pots to take back and give to your mother, and pick another two pots to give to Daixue **Guniang** as a *gift* from me."
<div class="author-note">
见面礼(jiànmiànlǐ)-present given to somebody on first meeting
</div>

Zhao Huanxi heard her mention the gift, thinking that when he came over, he didn't bring her any gift. Feeling a bit embarrassed, he angrily said, "Who needs you to give gifts? I have money!" After saying that, he called Xu Nian'an over and handed her over forty-plus taels of silver left over from buying painting books and renting the carriage, "I'll buy from you. Can this money buy four pots?"

Xu Nian'an laughed and said, "Whether it's enough or not doesn't matter. If it's not enough, consider it my gift to you."

Zhao Huanxi was so angry he wanted to stomp his feet: "I said I didn't want you to give it away!"

However, Xu Nian'an no longer paid him any attention, smiling warmly as she said to Zhiyi and Zhi'er, "I've already helped your **San Yé** choose the peonies. Go back to the residence early and don't make your Furen worry." As she spoke, she handed them each five taels of silver. "Take it for tea. This matter is between me and **San Yé**, and I don't want you two to be stressed out along with us."

The two were fearful and dared not refuse Xu Nian'an's offer in front of everyone. They accepted it with gratitude and repeatedly thanked her.

Zhao Huanxi was astonished to see her openly bribing his servants right in front of him. His eyes widened in disbelief.

Seeing his expression, Xu Nian'an couldn't help but want to laugh. She forced herself to say, "Zhao **Gongzi**, please make yourself comfortable. I'll go greet other guests." With that, she gracefully left, her skirt fluttering and carrying a hint of fragrance.

Unable to glare at her, Zhao Huanxi could only direct his glare towards his own servants. 

Zhiyi and Zhi'er shrunk their shoulders like quails. 

With no other choice, Zhao Huanxi turned around and said, "Let's go."

As Xu Nian'an walked away, she glanced at the handkerchief dampened by Zhao Huanxi's tears and the silver he had given her. She shook her head inwardly. Handing both the handkerchief and the silver to Mingli, she composed herself and put on a smile, welcoming the Furens and young ladies who were admiring the flowers.

When Zhao Huanxi returned to Jing **Guogong** esidence, it was already past dinner time. Yin Furen was worried, and upon seeing him returning with servants carrying flowers, she called him to her room to have dinner.

"Did you go to the flower market?" Yin Furen asked. While the peonies in their garden were blooming beautifully, these two pots were of a variety not found in the residence. Zhao Huanxi had brought them back specifically for her, which pleased Yin Furen. She couldn't resist admiring them for a while.

As Zhao Huanxi ate, he said, "I bought these from the Xu Family's flower field."

Yin Furen's hand, which was caressing the flower petals, paused abruptly. She turned her head to look at Zhao Huanxi, and Nanny Su beside her also wore a surprised expression.

"You went to the Xu family's flower fields in the city outskirts?" Yin Furen asked. She was aware that the Xu family owned flower fields in the suburbs of the capital.

Zhao Huanxi nodded.

"Go to see Xu Family's **Da Guniang**?" 

Again, Zhao Huanxi nodded.

Yin Furen's expression became serious, and she stood solemnly, asking in a grave tone, "What did you say to her?"

Zhao Huanxi thought of the crying and yelling in front of Xu Nian'an he did, feeling extremely embarrassed and said awkwardly: "I didn't say much, just wanted to see what she looked like."

Yin Furen carefully observed his expression, which didn't seem like he had caused any trouble. She slightly eased her worry, walked over, and sat down at the table. In a low voice, she asked, "Did you meet her?"

"En."

"What do you think?"

Zhao Huanxi's chopsticks tapped against his bowl as he remembered the sight of Xu Nian'an in the flower fields. He felt a slight uncontrollable flutter in his heart.

But that Xu Nian'an actually covered his mouth as soon as she approached him! And she even pulled his sleeve! She deliberately spoke little by little to make him anxious, and teased him… What a real… real thick skin!

Not only did she bribe his servants right in front of him before even entering this household! 

She left him behind to greet other guests before he even left! 

Not only does she have thick skin, but she's also *full of the smell of copper*!
<div class="author-note">
满身铜臭 (Mǎnshēntóngchòu) - stinking with (only think about) money;
</div>

But... among people around him, she's the only one who says he can follow his heart. She even said she's willing to be his fake wife and divorce him in two or three years with "infertile" as the reason. So, he can't say she's not good.

"Fine... I guess," he said reluctantly.

Seeing him say "fine" while looking even more uncomfortable, Yin Furen grew suspicious. She decided not to ask for more details about his encounter with Xu Nian'an and instead questioned him, "So, about this marriage proposal, you truly accepted it, right? You won't regret it or cause any more trouble?"

Zhao Huanxi remained silent.

On the carriage ride back, he carefully considered it and realized that besides the solution proposed by Xu Nian'an, there really wasn't a better option. 

It's just two or three years, of course he could endure that.

He nodded.

Yin Furen felt a huge weight lift off her chest. After seeing him finish his meal, she sent him off to rest.
<br>

After a busy afternoon, Yin Furen seized a moment during the break to summon Zhiyi for a question.

"Tell me in detail about what happened this morning when **San Yé** went to see Xu Family's **Guniang**. I want to know everything." Yin Furen, recalling Zhao Huanxi's expression when talking about Xu Family's **Da Guniang**, couldn't quite gauge if he was pleased or displeased. He seemed rather embarrassed, yet he agreed to the marriage proposal, which was quite perplexing.

Zhiyi was trembling nervously as he had secretly helped Zhao Huanxi gather information and secretly taken him to see Xu **Guniang** outside the city. When Yin Furen asked about it, he dared not hide anything.

"**Yé** arrived at the flower fields and met Xu **Guniang**. He was about to say he wouldn't marry her, but before he could finish, Xu **Guniang** covered his mouth and dragged him away to a secluded place," Zhiyi whispered.

Yin Furen's face turned pale with anger.

Zhiyi became even more timid, stuttering as he continued, "Xu- Xu **Guniang** said that if **Yé** said such things, it would harm me and Zhi'er. Then, **Yé** stopped talking and sent me and Zhi'er away. He stayed behind with Xu **Guniang** and talked. After a short while, **Yé** suddenly started crying and said he didn't want to live anymore. Xu **Guniang** persuaded him with a few words. After **Yé** calmed down, Xu **Guniang** suggested he pick a few pots of peonies as her gift. She asked him to choose the peonies quickly and return to the residence early to avoid worrying Furen. **Yé** refused her gift and gave Xu **Guniang** all the remaining forty-five taels and seven coins of silver from buying painting books and hiring the carriage."

Yin Furen's emotions fluctuated greatly. When Zhiyi stopped speaking, she asked, "Is that all?"

Zhiyi nodded, "That is all."

"Did you not hear anything **San Yé** and Xu **Guniang** said to each other?"

Zhiyi shook his head, "At that time, **Yé** and Xu **Guniang** were very close, speaking in very low voices. In the end, they even shook hands, as if whispering something."

After pondering for a moment and failing to grasp the situation, Yin Furen stared coldly at Zhi Yi and said, "**San Yé** was able to find Xu **Guniang** so easily in the flower fields outside the capital. You and Zhi'er must have put in quite an effort, right?"

Zhiyu's forehead broke out in a cold sweat. **San Yé** was kind and lenient, never laying a hand on him or Zhi'er. Even when he was angry, he only scolded with a few words. But Yin Furen was different.

"Furen, have mercy! **Xiaoren**, **Xiaoren** just thought that **San Yé** seemed really unhappy lately, so One took the risk to help him gather information. **Xiaoren** won't dare to do it again!" He bowed repeatedly, pleading for forgiveness.

Yin Furen intended to punish this servant. After all, if it weren't for that clever Xu **Guniang**, who promptly stopped Huanxi from revealing something, it's likely the news would have spread throughout the city by now. By evening, it might have even reached the ears of **Guogong Yé**. Huanxi would undoubtedly suffer another ordeal.

However, Huanxi had finally agreed to this marriage proposal after much difficulty. It was not advisable to complicate matters further at this time.

"Go back and keep a close eye on **San Yé**. If there's even the slightest slip-up before the wedding, I'll skin you alive!" Yin Furen exclaimed sternly.

Knowing he had narrowly escaped punishment, Zhiyi expressed his gratitude profusely and hurriedly ran off crawling on the ground.

Yin Furen leaned back in her chair, feeling weary. With one hand supporting her forehead, she closed her eyes.

Nanny Su approached from behind and, with familiarity, gently massaged the temples on either side of Yin Furen's head.

Yin Furen opened her eyes, gazing blankly at the two pots of peonies brought back by Zhao Huanxi. She said, "After his Third Sistdf came back and advised him, he behaved obediently for a few days. I thought he had truly come to his senses, but it turns out it was all an act."

"In the past, *you* have always indulged **San Yé**, but because of **Guogong Yé**, one had to compromise in this matter. Besides, it's a lifelong matter, so it's understandable if **San Yé** is feeling troubled for a moment," Nanny Su comforted.

After a moment of silence, Yin Furen suddenly said, "Huanxi's pretending to be obedient and ingratiating himself is just a ploy to find an opportunity to leave the mansion and seek out that Xu Family's **Da Guniang**. He must have gone with the determination to persuade her to call off the marriage, and he wouldn't even conceal the matter of that little harlot. But when I heard (the story from Zhiyi), Xu **Guniang** easily placated Huanxi with just a few words. What do you think she said to him to change his mind so quickly and agree to marry her?"

Nanny Su pondered for a moment before hesitantly saying, "Could it be that she promised **San Yé** that after she enters the household, she will agree to him taking that person surnamed Pang as his concubine?"

Yin Furen sneered, "If that's the case, then it's truly foolish beyond comprehension!"
<div class="author-note">
愚不可及(yúbùkějí) - couldn't be more foolish; hopelessly stupid;
</div>
