---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 7"
snippet: "The Grand Wedding's Eve"
order: 7
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

After listening to Zheng Furen's words, the Xu Siblings exchanged a knowing glance. Xu Nian'an hesitated for a moment, then nodded. Xu Moxiu, facing Zheng Furen's puzzled gaze, slowly rolled up the sleeve of her right arm.

On the young man's slender and strong right arm, there was a scar as hideous and ugly as a centipede.

"Ah!" Zheng Furen saw for the first time such a large scar on her son's arm, so astonished that she covered her mouth in disbelief. "This- what's going on? When did this happen? How could it be like this?" Such a large scar indicates how big and deep the wound was. It must have been so painful!

"Mom still remember? It was two years ago, that spring, on a night when it rained particularly heavily. **Ah Jie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older sister"></sup> and I were hurrying on the road overnight and accidentally fell. I injured my arm, and **Ah Jie** hit her head?" Xu Moxiu reminded Zheng Furen.

Zheng Furen instantly remembered and looked again at the scar in disbelief. "This... is from that fall? It was so serious! Why didn't you say anything at the time? You were studying (for the exam) at that time. With such a big wound, and on your right arm, what if it hadn't healed properly and left you disabled?" Zheng Furen felt both heartache and fear, her eyes welling up with tears.

"At that time, we didn't say anything because both **Ah Jie** and I lied." Xu Moxiu glanced at Xu Nian'an, smiled bitterly, then turned to Zheng Furen, who looked stunned, and continued, "That year, **Ah Jie** had just converted our rice fields into flower fields. We had no way to sell the peonies we grew, so **Ah Jie** had to personally sell them at the flower market. That day, I was in school and saw that it looked like it was going to rain. I asked for permission from the teacher to leave early and went to the flower market to help **Ah Jie**. I happened to encounter a hooligan bullying **Ah Jie**. I rushed to protect **Ah Jie** but ended up with my right arm broken by the hooligan's servant."

Upon hearing this, Zheng Furen was shocked and tears streamed down her face.

"Realizing the trouble he caused, the hooligan fled with his servant. I passed out from the pain. **Ah Jie** carried me to find a doctor, but because my arm was badly broken, the city doctors couldn't guarantee it would heal perfectly. **Ah Jie**, braving the rain, carried me to the gate of Count Zhongyi Residence, begging **Da Bofu** to help find a royal physician to treat my arm."

"I was in and out of consciousness from the pain. I saw **Ah Jie** soaked to the bone, kneeling in front of Count Zhongyi Residence, crying and begging incessantly. Her knees were bleeding, her head was bleeding, her voice was hoarse, but she couldn't knock open the gate of Count Zhongyi Residence."

Thinking of her eldest sister's tragic situation from back then, Xu Moxiu's nose tingled, and tears almost fall. He turned his head slightly to force back the tears. Xu Nian'an smiled and patted his hand, comforting him, "It's all in the past."

Xu Moxiu looked at her, nodded, and then turned to Zheng Furen, who was in tears, and finished the continuation of the story, "Seeing no hope, **Ah Jie** and I, with me still bleeding, had no choice but to seek help from the Jing **Guogong** Residence. On the way, we met **Guogong Yé** who was returning from reporting to the palace. He immediately summoned a royal physician to treat my broken arm. After stabilizing my condition, we were sent back the next day. Afraid of worrying *you*, **Ah Jie** and I decided to keep this a secret and only said it was an accidental fall."

Zheng Furen embraced her sensible children and burst into tears, "My poor children, it's all because Mom is useless and couldn't protect you…"

"Don't blame yourself, Mom. It's fate. We're not afraid. We'll only be stronger than others." Xu Nian'an said.

"Mom, don't worry. I will study hard, achieve success, and be the pillar for you and my sisters. As for those heartless people at Count Zhongyi Residence, don't pay them any attention. In the future, they will be the ones seeking our favor." said Xu Moxiu.

At this moment, Zheng Furen could only nod in agreement, unable to say a word.

The person who has been ill for a long time was tired after experiencing such emotional ups and downs. After tending to Zheng Furen until she fell asleep, the Xu siblings quietly left the main house and went to Xu Moxiu's room.

Xu Moxiu had just scanned the courtyard with her eyes and asked Xu Nian'an, "Why don't I see **Wu Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th younger sistsd"></sup>? Where did she go to be naughty again?"

Xu Nian'an smiled and replied, "She hasn't been able to be naughty recently. She and **Si Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th younger sister"></sup> are locked in my room to look at the account books. As for you, you're not supposed to be back so soon during this period. Is there something going on at the academy?"

Xu Moxiu's eyebrows slightly furrowed, and his dark eyes looked at her with concern as she said, "There's nothing going on at the academy. It's just that I heard your marriage with Zhao Huanxi has been set."

"It seems that the famous far and wide Canglan Academy is not a place where one shut both ears to what goes on outside the window, and only focuses on studying the classics! It's only been a few days, and the news has spread to the point that even you know about it." Xu Nian'an sat down by the window, laughing as she spoke.

Xu Moxiu quickly walked a few steps and followed her to the window, saying, "You're still laughing. Do you know who you're going to marry? I've discreetly inquired around, and Zhao Huanxi is very…"

Xu Nian'an, seeing his pause halfway through, asked, "Very what? Very unbearable?"

"I can't really say he's unbearable," Xu Moxiu sat down opposite her with a gloomy expression. "But he's really been pampered by Yin Furen. At ten, he needed someone to feed him; at twelve, he still wet the bed, and at fifteen, he would cry for his mother even when it rained. He's neither scholarly nor martially talented... In short, he's a person who can't stand on his own! To think that your whole life will be entrusted to such a worthless person, I feel a hundred unwillingnesses in my heart."

"A hundred unwillingnesses, then what should we do? Should we go to **Guogong Yé** and ask to annul the marriage, saying I don't like his eldest legitimate grandson?" Xu Nian'an asked Xu Moxiu.

Xu Moxiu clenched his teeth, and his fist on the small table tightened.

**Guogong Yé** saved him, and in the past two years, **Ah Jie**'s business has been smooth, and it's hard to say it's not due to the covert care of the Guogong Residence. Although Zhao Huanxi is useless and pampered, he is not a great villain. Moreover, as the eldest legitimate grandson of the Jing Guogong Residence, marrying Xu Nian'an, no matter where you look at it, **Guogong Yé** showing high regard for their Xu family. Even if the Xu family is unwilling, they absolutely cannot bring themselves to ask for an annulment.

"I met him today," said Xu Nian'an suddenly.

Xu Moxiu's eyes lit up, staring at her intently.

"He's a simple and kind-hearted young man, and a bit cute." Xu Nian'an smiled as she replied.

Xu Moxiu frowned again. "Look at the words you're saying. Are these words one uses to describe one's future husband?"

"He has someone else he loves. We agreed that after getting married, we would pretend to be a couple for two or three years. Then, I would use my inability to bear children as a reason to divorce him. He agreed."

Xu Moxiu widened his eyes in surprise.

"As part of the deal, when we divorce, he will give me a house with a courtyard and two shops so I can make a living. I think this deal is quite favorable."

Xu Moxiu's brow furrowed even more deeply. "I agree with your divorce. But we don't need his rotten stuff. When the time comes, you can come back home. If you want to remarry, you can remarry. If you don't want to remarry, I'll take care of you for the rest of your life."

"That won't do!" Xu Nian'an immediately objected. "With your older sister's abilities, I could easily earn a courtyard house and two shops within two or three years of running a business. Why should I do labor for Zhao Huanxi for nothing? He shouldn't be the only one getting all the benefits."

Xu Moxiu was both angry and amused, as he glared and said, "At times like this, you're still worried about these things!"

"What's wrong with being concerned about these things? You, Qi'an and Hui'an are still unmarried. It's fine for you to wait a few more years, but for Qi'an and Hui'an, marriage is imminent. With our family background, I don't intend for them to marry into higher families. I just hope their husbands have good character and treat them well. Of course, they will need a substantial dowry."

"What about yourself?" Xu Moxiu looked at Xu Nian'an, who appeared calm and unconcerned.

"As for me, I'll bring all the betrothal gifts from the Jing **Guogong** Residence, along with some of my daily necessities. This way, when we divorce, I won't have to return the dowry back. With our background, even if our family were to give me all our assets as dowry, the Jing **Guogong** Residence might not value it. In that case, it's better to be straightforward. Besides, they are not unaware of our circumstances."

Xu Nian'an, with one hand supporting her chin, wore a face that displayed three parts fatigue, three parts laziness, three parts calculation, and an additional part of apology. "Ah Xiu, don't worry about me. My purpose is actually to find an opportunity to show filial respect to **Guogong Yé**. Otherwise, owing him such a big favor without a chance to repay it has always made me uneasy. **Guogong Yé** is not a narrow-minded or overbearing person. His insistence on marrying me into their family is also to take care of us. Seeing that Zhao Huanxi and I really can't get along, he will agree to our divorce."

Xu Moxiu's expression remained melancholic. "I hope so."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>


About six or seven days before the wedding, Yin Furen finally had all the wedding preparations in order.

Walking from the main gate all the way to Jiaxiang Courtyard, one the mansion adorned with red lanterns, red silk ribbons, and "Double Happiness" symbols in gold everywhere. Even the servants were dressed in bright new clothes. Yin Furen stood on the veranda, looking very pleased with herself.
<div class="author-note">
双喜(shuāngxǐ) - the combined symmetric character 囍 (similar to 喜喜) as symbol of good luck, esp. marriage.
</div>

Even though the daughter-in-law was not to her liking, Yin Furen was very pleased with this wedding, which could be considered the most grandiose wedding in the Jing Guogong Residence in nearly twenty years.

She wanted everyone in the mansion to know that her son, Zhao Huanxi, was the most precious legitimate eldest grandson in the mansion, the one who would inherit the title in the future. He was not to be compared with any other random person.

Before she could enjoy herself for long, just as night was falling, her husband, Zhao Mingkun, the legitimate eldest son of the Zhao family, arrived at Jiaxiang Courtyard in a menacing manner.

At that time, Yin Furen and Zhao Huanxi were having a meal together. Zhao Mingkun didn't even look at Zhao Huanxi and, with great disgust, ordered him to leave. He then dismissed the servants and angrily scolded Yin Furen!

"…When the elders ask you to manage the household expenses, it's a sign of trust, not a license to favour one and discriminate against the other!
厚此薄彼(hòucǐ-bóbǐ) - to favour one and discriminate against the other

"For the marriage of a grandchild, all the servants in the mansion are given new clothes. Even for Father's sixtieth birthday, we didn't spend so extravagantly without regard for the economy!

"When Xu **Ge'er** got married, **Wu Dimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th (younger) brother's wife"></sup> was so virtuous, and we kept everything simple. When Xu **Ge'er** passed the Tongshi exam at sixteen, he was renowned throughout the capital's noble families, such glory! Xu **Ge'er**'s wife is even the legitimate daughter of Marquis Wuding. What ability does your son have? What is the background of your daughter-in-law? To worth such extravagance and waste?!

"Now, with the beautiful spring scenery and all the flowers blooming, you're still using red silk to make fake flowers. Do you think my Zhao family's money comes from the wind?

"Tomorrow, you will present an account statement. Compare it to Xu **Ge'er**'s wedding. Any excess expenses will not come from the household treasury; you'll have to cover them yourself! Don't be confused and make me unable to hold my head up at home!"

Yin Furen screamed: "Zhao Mingkun! Have you lost your mind? You keep saying 'your son, your son', but Xi **Ge'er** is only born to me alone, and your son is only the two on the side-courtyard<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="part of the house where the concubine and her children reside"></sup>, is that right? You despise your daughter-in-law for her humble background, but do you have the right to say that to me? I didn't choose this daughter-in-law! If you think the wedding of Xi **Ge'er** is extravagant, why don't you talk to Father? Father repeatedly reminded us not to mistreat the Xu family's daughter! You have no ability, so when you suffer elsewhere, you only vent on us, mother and son. What kind of man are you?!"

"Shut up! You shrew, you're completely unreasonable!"

The shouting and cursing from the room grew louder, and soon the entire courtyard could hear.

Zhao Huanxi stood on the veranda, staring straight at the peach tree in the courtyard. It had shed all its blossoms, but was adorned with red silk flowers, making it look unusually festive and lively. He stood there motionless.

As the noise from the room became more and more unsettling, Zhiyi grew fearful and whispered, "**Yé**, shall we go back to the room first?"

Zhao Huanxi looked up at the pitch-black night sky, feeling as heavy and oppressive as the darkness itself, making it hard to breathe.

He really wanted to find someone to talk to, but in the entire mansion, he couldn't find anyone he could confide in. The only person he could talk to, Daixue, was confined to the Furong Pavilion.

He lowered his head deeply and, amid the undignified quarrels and curses of his parents, returned to his room with a lonely figure.
