---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 8"
snippet: "The Grand Wedding"
order: 8
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Zhao Mingkun left, leaving behind a room strewn with broken porcelain, in a terrible mess. Yin Furen collapsed into the arms of Nanny Su, crying so intensely that she seemed on the verge of collapse.

"It’s a legitimate son’s grand wedding, and I have been busy for two or three months, but he didn't lift even a finger to help. Not only that, he even joined others in scolding me. Where in the world can you find a father with such a heart of wolf and lungs of dog?"
<div class="author-note">
狼心狗肺 (lángxīngǒufèi) - (idiom) cruel and unscrupulous.
</div>

"They keep comparing Xu **Ge’er**'s wedding with Xi **Ge**'s. What is Xu **Ge’er**'s status, and what is Xi **Ge**'s status? As the eldest legitimate grandson, what’s wrong with Xi **Ge**'s wedding being more extravagant than Xu **Ge**'s? Everyone’s eyeball are looking with dripping blood, as if spending a little more money will collapse the Jing Guogong Residence!"

Yin Furen cried and cursed for a while, then gritted her teeth and said in a low voice, "It must be that old hag from the Buddha hall helping the widow from the Fifth Branh to suppress me again! That old hag, pretending to be devout, eating vegetarian and reciting Buddha, but her heart has long been crooked! If her heart really sits with the Buddha, while she herself sits in the residence, then the Buddha must be sitting outside the capital!"

Nanny Su had been massaging her back to calm her down. When she heard this, she couldn't help but chuckle.

Yin Furen looked up at her in astonishment, her eyes red from crying, and scolded, "You old thing, you're still laughing. Can't you see I'm almost being bullied to death?"

Nanny Su hurriedly suppressed her smile, continuing to massage Yin's Furen back attentively. While doing so, she advised, "Furen, please relax. Those in the Fifth Branch are jusy *lying on their stomach wanting to eat rubbish*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="someone who is idling around, doing nothing constructive, and possibly scheming or plotting for personal gain"></sup>! Just because **Wu Dayé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th Dayé (master)"></sup> died when he followed **Guogong Yé** to the battle, they're fantasizing about letting Xu **Ge'er** inherit the title as compensation? Do they think the court's rituals and laws are a joke? **Lao Taitai**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="old madam, the wife of the Guogonh Yé"></sup> even had a falling out with **Guogong Yé** over this matter and stayed in the Buddha hall for several years. Did **Guogong Yé** relent? He knows the truth! One's private desires are no match for the court's rituals and laws."

Yin Furen desperately wanted to delude herself and tell herself that what Nanny Su said was true and unshakable. Yet, deep down, she knew in despair that it was not the case.

Inheriting the title, the so-called "appointing the virtuous, not necessarily the eldest legitimate son", has long been a precedent in this dynasty. The one who first set this precedent was the Cheng **Guogong** Zhu family, the maternal family of Consort Zhen.

The idea of "appointing the virtuous, not necessarily the eldest legitimate son" is just a cover-up. It's simply because the eldest legitimate son of the Cheng Guogong Residence and Consort Zhen did not have the same mother, while the second son did share the same mother with Consort Zhen. Who can't see through this?

However, once this precedent is set, if **Guogong Yé** feels that Zhao Huanxu is more capable of carrying on the Jing Guogong Residence than her Huanxi, he could petition the court to grant Zhao Huanxu the title of Jing **Guogong Shisun**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="世孙 (shìsūn) refers to the grandson who would inherit the title"></sup>. After all, as Zhao Mingkun said, Zhao Huanxu is so outstanding that he passed the Tongshi examination at just over ten years old, a feat few noble families in the capital can match. Plus, he has a father who died for the country…

As for her Huanxi, there's a high probability that his military power will be taken away by Zhao Huanchao, born to that bi*ch surnamed Du. If he can't even inherit the title, what will he have left?

Yin Furen became more and more fearful and regretful as she thought about it. She regretted pampering Zhao Huanxi too much since he was young, protecting him so well that by the age of sixteen, he still resorted to crying, making a scene, or even going on a hunger strike whenever he wanted something. As for that scoundrel Zhao Mingkun, he never looked at this legitimate son of his with approval. Even **Guogong Yé**, she afraid, is not fond of Huanxi. Otherwise, why would he choose to marry off Xu Family's daughter, who has no family background to rely on, to Huanxi, instead of to other legitimate grandsons of another branch?

But how could she not pamper and protect Huanxi? She had four daughters before she finally had Huanxi, her only son. When Huanxi was born, that little bastard Zhao Huanchao, was already twelve years old, and that little bastard Zhao Huanyang, was seven. If she hadn't been careful, who know Zhao Huanxi could have grown up safely to this age?

There's no point in regretting or hoping anymore. Yin Furen was so exhausted from crying that she had no strength left. With swollen eyes, she stared blankly, stiff in Nanny Su's arms, not knowing what the future held for her and Huanxi.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the blink of an eye, five or six days passed, and it was already the day of Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an's grand wedding.

With Jing **Guogong** personally presiding over the event, who would dare to disrespect them? A large group of people surrounded Zhao Huanxi, dressed in festive attire, as they joyfully headed towards the Xu family to welcome the bride.

The Xu family's small two-entrance courtyard was also overcrowded at this moment. During times of hardship, it felt as though one had sprung from a crack in a rock—with not a single soul in the world being a close relative. But when luck turned for the better, these relatives all seemed to spring forth from the cracks in the rocks; every stone path was now crowded with kin.

Even Countess Zhongyi, who had a big argument with the Xu siblings that day, shamelessly came with her unmarried daughter, Xu Meizhen.

On such a joyous day, there was naturally no reason to drive people away. The Xu family had no intention of sending anyone away.

When they split from the main branch of Count Residence, they had nothing but this dilapidated house, a few rundown shops, and several acres of poor, barren land. With the whole family being sickly, too young, or too old, they had nothing at all. Now, their modest prosperity was all accumulated bit by bit by Xu Nian'an alone.

Whether it was for Zheng Furen, the Xu siblings, Nanny Zhou, or their servants who were just slightly more than ten, Xu Nian'an was the pillar of the Xu family, holding everything together for everyone.

Even though they had done their best to arrange all the Xu household matters for after the marriage during these past two months, on the day she truly left for her wedding, the thought that she would become a member of the Zhao family and could no longer live in the Xu family made the Xu family feel as if their world had collapsed.

Zheng Furen had been crying since last night, and she cried until this afternoon. Her eyes were so swollen that she could barely open them. She managed to stay conscious only with the help of a mouthful of ginseng soup.

Xu Qi'an and Xu Hui'an also felt very attached to their eldest sister. Throughout the day, they cried quietly several times.

Xu Nian'an saw the reluctance of everyone in the family, feeling both touched and helpless.

She only confided in the discrete Xu Moxiu about her divorce plan with Zhao Huanxi. She couldn't say to everyone, "Stop crying, I'll be back in three years after the divorce." In the end, she had to steel herself and leave.

When Xu Moxiu lifted Xu Nian'an onto the bridal sedan chair, he saw the delicate and tender Zhao Huanxi looking dejected, hanging his head as if everyone owed him money. This sight instantly made his anger rise up to the top of his head.

Thinking of what **Ah Jie** had said about the fake marriage and the divorce in three years, Xu Moxiu forcefully suppressed his anger, standing at the door watching as the Zhao family members surrounded the bridal sedan chair carrying **Ah Jie** away. A layer of tears welled up in his eyes.

Upon arriving at the Jing Guogong Residence, they went through a series of wedding ceremonies. After all the rituals were completed, the newlyweds were finally escorted to the bridal chamber.

Considering that Zhao Huanxi was young, after he had lifted the bridal veil, he didn't need to accompany the guests at the banquet to drink. His two *shu* brothers<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="庶兄 (shù xiōng) - shu older brother. Shu-siblings are siblings that are born from a concubine."></sup> and several Tang cousins took care of everything. Afraid that the groom would be too embarrassed, they didn't arrange for anyone to play pranks in the bridal chamber either. After the *Xipo*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="喜婆(xǐ pó) is a female elder who accompanies and assists the bride during the wedding ceremony. "></sup> said the auspicious words, she closed the door and left, leaving the young couple alone in the bridal chamber.

"Sss<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="hissing sound"></sup>—Aiyo!" Xu Nianan took off the heavy phoenix coronet and placed it on the bridal bed. As she stood up, she stretched and rubbed her sore neck and limbs, muttering to herself, "Getting married is more tiring than working in the flower fields all day!"

The room was quiet without a sound. She felt strange and looked beside herself, only to see Zhao Huanxi sitting on the edge of the bed like a jade carving, bowing his head to look at the tip of his boot, his long eyelashes fluttering after a long time.

She leaned over, reached out, and waved her hand in front of him, saying, "Hey, what are you daydreaming about?"

Zhao Huanxi suddenly snapped out of his trance, turned his head to look at her, and remained silent.

"Why are you so listless, because of us pretending to be a couple?" Xu Nian'an sat back down and asked in a low voice.

Zhao Huanxi shook his head.

"Then, is it about Daixue **Guniang**?" Xu Nian'an asked again.

Zhao Huanxi still shook his head.

"If it's not that, then why are you looking so dejected?"

Zhao Huanxi turned his head again, his pair of black, bright, and clear eyes looking at her seriously, his tender red lips slightly parted. "Back then, when you agreed so readily to be in a fake marriage with me and divorce me three years later, was it also because you thought I was useless and didn't want to be a real couple with me?"

A hint of interest flickered in Xu Nian'an's warm and bright eyes. Instead of answering, she asked, "Someone said you're useless? Someone who says you're useless must be truly useless themselves, right?"

Zhao Huanxi stiffened for a moment, then his expression became somewhat strange, as if he wanted to laugh but also seemed annoyed. After holding back for a while, he finally asked, "Why would you say that?"

"Think about it, if someone is truly useful, they would have long been concerned about the state and the people's livelihood. At the very least, they would be concerned about the development and future of their family, which offers plenty to do. Who has the time to worry about whether others are useful or not? Moreover, how old are you? There's an old saying; 'It's better to deceive an old man than to deceive a young man'. Do you know why? Because youth is the starting point of a man. A young man's future has countless possibilities. Anyone who can call a sixteen-year-old youth useless is incredibly short-sighted. What achievements can someone so short-sighted truly have?" Xu Nian'an's analysis was clear and logical.

Zhao Huanxi shrugged, his pretty face lacking any intimidating expression. "You're talking nonsense!"

Zhao Huanxi's shoulders slumped again, and he turned his head back to continue staring at the tip of his boot, murmuring softly, "It's me who is useless. Zhao Huanxu had already passed the Tongshi examination when he was my age."

Upon hearing this, Xu Nian'an said, "You're wrong about this. Everyone has their strengths and weaknesses. You can't always compare your weaknesses to others' strengths. If we do that, then I could say that all men in the world are inferior to women."

Zhao Huanxi asked her, "Why is that?"

"Because no matter how hard you men work, you can never bear and raise children like us women, ensuring the continuation of the family line," Xu Nian'an said with a smirk.

Zhao Huanxi was both amused and annoyed. "You're just talking nonsense. I won't talk to you anymore." He said this, but there was a bit more liveliness in his eyes than before.

"Well, if you won't talk, then don’t talk. Do we have anything to eat? I'm starving," Xu Nian'an said, holding her stomach.

Upon hearing her say she was hungry, Zhao Huanxi stood up and looked at the table. There were some pastries. He turned to Xu Nian'an and said, "Why don't you have a piece of snow-fungus and hibiscus cake first? I'll have someone bring some hot food from the kitchen." 

Xu Nian'an nodded.

Zhao Huanxi took a piece of hibiscus cake and handed it to her. Then, he went to the door and shouted, "Zhiyi, Zhiyi."

A maid's voice came from outside, "What orders does **San Yé** have?"

Zhao Huanxi looked at the maid, Xiaowei, in front of him in surprise and asked, "Why is it you? Where are Zhiyi and Zhi'er?"

Xiaowei answered respectfully, "Replying to **San Yé**, Furen said that since **San Yé** is married and has **San Nainai**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="奶奶 (nǎinai) - (respectful) young mistress of the house"></sup> by side, it is not suitable for Zhiyi and Zhi'er to continue serving in the room. Therefore, she sent **Núbi**, Xiaorong, Xiaocha, and Xiaoying to serve **San Yê** and **San Nainai**. Zhiyi and Zhi'er will continue to serve when **Yé** is studying or going out of the house."

Zhao Huanxi took a moment to understand that this "**San Nainai**" referred to Xu Nian'an. His mind was muddled, and his heart was in turmoil. He was too lazy to bother with these troublesome matters, so he said to Xiaowei, "I'm hungry, and **San Nainai** is hungry too. Go to the kitchen and bring some hot food."

Xiaowei complied and was about to leave when Zhao Huanxi suddenly remembered something and stopped her, asking, "Have all the people brought by **San Nainai** been properly arranged?"

Xiaowei obediently answered, "**San Yé**, rest assured, Furen had already arranged everything early in the morning."

Zhao Huanxi nodded, closed the door, and then turned to see Xu Nian'an, saying, "You haven't answered my previous question!"

"What question?"

Zhao Huanxi, seeing her pretending to be clueless, walked over angrily and said, "Why did you agree so readily to be in a fake marriage with me and then divorce?"

After eating a piece of hibiscus cake, Xu Nian'an's stomach felt better. She was in the mood to tease him, so she calmly said, "Oh, of course that's because you like someone else but don't like me, and I dislike you *having eyes but not eyeballs*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="有眼无珠 - (idiom) have eyes but see not; possess no true discernment"></sup>."

Zhao Huanxi's cheeks flushed red, staring incredulously at Xu Nian'an, who was still sitting on the edge of the bed. "You, you, a young lady, can say such words so boldly. Aren't you embarrassed?"

Xu Nian'an leaned forward on her knees, stood up, took a few steps to Zhao Huanxi's side, and looked up at the young man who was half a head taller than her, smiling. "I'm not embarrassed. Your face is so red. Are you embarrassed?"
