---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 12"
snippet: "Why would I bother to coax you? You are not my real husband anyway."
order: 12
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Zhao Huanxi responded gloomily, "What's the point of asking me what I like? It's as if just because I like something, I can actually do it."

Xu Nian'an's face revealed a sly expression as she said, "Just because you couldn't before doesn't mean you can't in the future. After all, your wife, I, am old in scheming and very deep in planning. What method can't I think of?"

Zhao Huanxi, feeling a mix of embarrassment, annoyance, but also wanted to laugh, glared at her for a long while before he could only squeeze out one sentence: "You really have no shame!"

Xu Nian'an, undeterred, said, "Tell me, what do you like to do?"

Zhao Huanxi lowered his head, his right foot's toe rolling back and forth on the luxurious short-pile carpet adorned with blooming flowers patterns, and said, "I like to paint."

"Like to paint, that's wonderful!" Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi suddenly looked up, took a few steps to the desk, his eyes sparkling like stars, and asked eagerly, "You think liking to paint is good, why?"

"Painting can cultivate one's moral character, refine one's temperament, and nurture one's sentiments. Of course, these are not the most important things. The most important is that if you paint very well, you can sell your paintings for money. If you paint extremely well, one painting could be worth a mansion in the capital. How great is that!" Xu Nian'an’s eyes sparkled as she said.

"You—can’t finish three sentences without mentioning money, you ironclad money lover!" Zhao Huanxi chided, but then his expression softened, "Daixue also said it's good that I like painting, but her reasons for supporting my painting are not as mundane as yours. She said, what one likes to do is their own business, and others have no right to interfere. Moreover, painting does not harm the natural order or morality, so why shouldn't I paint?"

"Who's stopping you from painting?"
 
"My mother. She says painting has no future and tells me to focus on studying. Since she won't let me do what I want to do, I won't do what she wants me to do either."

"Did you tell Daixue **Guniang** this too?" 

"I did."

Xu Nian'an disagreed, "Then I don't like the way Daixue **Guniang** advised you. Apart from making you feel like you've found a soulmate, how does it help you? It only stirs up trouble between you and your mother, which is truly inappropriate."

Zhao Huanxi became anxious, "You, don't talk nonsense, she didn't sow discord between my mother and me."

"You clearly told her that your mother won't let you paint, and she still said that painting is your own business and others have no right to interfere. Isn't that sowing discord? When she says 'others', isn't she referring to your mother? Do you dare to say that after hearing her words, you didn't harbor any resentment towards your mother for not letting you paint?"

Zhao Huanxi couldn't come up with a response, so he tried to change the subject, "I said she didn't sow discord, so she didn't. Stop trying to sow discord here, as if you could actually help me in any way. All you can do is agree with me verbally, right?"

"Who says I can only agree verbally? If you truly like painting, I can help you find a good teacher," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi was about to argue with her, but when he heard her words, he suddenly felt like a rooster that had been choked just before crowing, his face turning red and his neck swelling with suppressed anger.

Seeing his expression, Xu Nian'an couldn't help but smile.
 
Zhao Huanxi, seeing her smile, also relaxed, took a few steps closer, dragged a chair over, and sat down beside her, asking in a low voice, "Can you really find a teacher for me? You're not just teasing me?"

"Why would I bother to coax you? You are not my real husband anyway," Xu Nian'an retorted.

Zhao Huanxi, annoyed, said, "You taught me to keep things confidential and not tell anyone, yet you often mention it yourself."

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "Alright, I won't mention it." She leaned closer and whispered, "My younger brother is studying at Canglan Academy..."

Just as she started the sentence, Zhao Huanxi was startled and suddenly screamed, "Your younger brother is studying at Canglan Academy?"

Xu Nian'an frowned and covered her ears. "Why are you shouting? Do you really like Canglan Academy? I thought you didn't like studying?"

"I certainly don't like the likes of Canglan Academy, but my **Tangxiong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older male Tang cousin"></sup> from the Fifth Branch, Zhao Huanxu, likes it very much. He has always wanted to get in but couldn't," Zhao Huanxi said, raising his eyebrows.

Xu Nian'an scrutinized his expression and asked, "Do you have a bad relationship with this Fifth Branch's **Tangxiong** of yours? Why do I feel like you’re talking like you are taking pleasure in his misfortune?"

Zhao Huanxi replied disgruntledly, "If someone is always better than you in every aspect, but always likes to drag you in front of the elders to be compared to, can you have a good relationship with them?"

"Well, it (the relationship) definitely won’t be good, but Zhao Huanxu is not better than you in every aspect," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi's eyes lit up. "How do you know he's not better than me in every aspect? Didn't you just see him once at the hall?"

"It's precisely because I saw him that I know. He's not as good-looking as you."

Zhao Huanxi fell silent for a moment: "Who wants to compare looks with him?" He paused, then continued with a heavy heart, "In fact, I don't want to compare anything with him. We actually had a good relationship when we were young, but since **Wu Shufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="father's 5th younger brother; 5th paternal uncle"></sup> passed away, he changed. He became more showy, competitive, and eager to excel. **Zufu** likes literature and art, and since Zhao Huanxu is good at studying, **Zufu** favors him. I don't envy him, but he always wants to outdo me in front of **Zufu**. Every time he surpasses me, Mother gets very angry. I'm not afraid to admit it, but just now in the hall, it was the first time I heard **Zufu** speak to me so gently."

"Don't worry, in the future, **Zufu** will not only speak to you gently but will also often praise you. When that happens, you should stay calm and not get so excited that you bump your head," Xu Nian'an said, trying to hold back a laugh.

When Zhao Huanxi saw that she actually laughed at him for banging his heas when he kowtowed in the hall, he felt embarrassed and frustrated. With no other way to retaliate, he reached out and messed up the abacus beads Xu Nian'an had arranged.

"Hey, that's too much! I haven't finished calculating yet!" Xu Nian'an complained.

"What's there to calculate? Do you think I didn't see how thick the red packet **Zufu** gave you was? It would be strange if you made a loss!"

As the two of them were arguing, Xiao Wei came to relay Yin Furen's message, asking them to have their meal in the Zhilan Hall.

Zhao Huanxi whispered to Xu Nian'an as they walked, "You haven't told me how you're going to find me a teacher."

"It's because you kept interrupting," Xu Nian'an whispered back.

"I won't interrupt anymore, hurry up and tell me."

"My brother is studying at Canglan Academy, where many talented people gather. As you know, anyone who excels in their studies cares a lot about their handwriting, which relates to calligraphy. Since ancient times, calligraphy and painting have been closely related. Among them, there must be some who know some famous painters. When the time comes, it shouldn’t be difficult for my brother to help introduce us."

Zhao Huanxi, impatient, said, "You must keep this matter in mind and don't forget it. Will your brother be present at the *Sanzhao Huimen* Ceremony? If he is, you might as well ask him then.”
<div class="author-note">
三朝回门 (sān zhāo huímén): The ritual return to the bride's maiden home on the third day after the wedding.
</div>

Who knew Xu Nian'an would flatly reject: "You're dreaming. I haven't even seen your true abilities yet. Those who are truly talented also have high standards. If your painting skills are not up to par now, a true master might not be willing to take you as a disciple. Have you learned painting from anyone before? If you're free in the afternoon, bring me your previous works and let me have a look."

"When I was ten, Mother hired a teacher to teach me painting. But after a few years, Zhao Huanxu passed the Tongshi examination, and Mother dismissed my painting teacher and burned all my paintings," Zhao Huanxi said gloomily.

"It's fine as long as you've learned. Paintings can be recreated, so it's not a big deal."

"En!"
<br>

The Zhilan Hall is a large hall consisting of five reception pavilions and two side halls, located in the grand garden of the mansion, the Zhilan Garden. It sits with Mount Zhi at its back and facing the Lan Lake. In late spring and early summer, the lush greenery, vibrant mountain flowers, and serene lake create a beautiful scenery.

Lunch was served in the two side halls, with male guests dining in the left side hall and female guests in the right side hall.

"After we finish eating, let's go back together and meet here," Zhao Huanxi said to Xu Nian'an, standing under a large pomegranate tree in front of the Zhilan Hall.

Xu Nian'an nodded: "Okay."

Excited about finding a new teacher, Zhao Huanxi happily headed towards the left side hall. Xiaowei and other maids were about to follow, but Xu Nian'an said, "Xiaowei, come with me for a moment."

Xiaowei followed her to the side and asked, "What orders does **San Nainai** have?"

Xu Nian'an asked her, "Since you are the head maid by **San Yé**'s side, you should also be aware of his relationship with Pang **Guniang**, right?"

Xiaowei hesitated for a moment, then looked up at Xu Nian'an's eyes, which seemed to understand everything, and nodded.

"So, do you know that they communicate through Zhao Yujie?" 

Xiaowei whispered, "Yes."

"If you knew, why didn't you come forward to stop Zhao Yujie when he came to talk to **San Yé** this morning?" Xu Nian'an asked, staring at her.

Xiaowei became nervous and tried to find an excuse, "**San Yé** has always had a good relationship with Jie **Da Shaoyé**, so **Nubi**..." She couldn't continue under Xu Nian'an's gaze.

Xu Nian'an caught sight of Nanny Hou walking towards them from the corner of her eye. She said to Xiaowei, "If it's just serving tea, water, and helping with washing, any maid with hands can do it. Why do we need you specifically? I'll only say this once. If there's a next time, I'll report directly to Furen. Now, take Xiaorong and the others to the left side hall to watch over **San Yé**. It's just for the duration of a meal. Don't let **San Yé** do anything he shouldn't. Understand?"

Xiao Wei nodded quietly and took Xiaorong and the other four maids to the left side hall. 

Nanny Hou approached and greeted Xu Nian'an. She glanced at the backs of Xiaowei and the other maids and said, "**San Nainai** has arrived. Furen is waiting. Let's go over now."

Xu Nian'an nodded gracefully, "One troubles Nanny Hou to lead the way."

When they arrived at the right side hall, the dining table was already set, with fresh fruits and cold dishes already served. Yin Furen was inviting everyone to take their seats. The wife of the First Branch's **Da Ye** Zhao Huanchao, Qin **Shi**, was bustling around, assisting the elders of the family with a smile and kind words. She seemed to be in perfect harmony with everyone, and if one didn't know better, they would think she was Yin Furen's own legitimate daughter-in-law.

Seeing Xu Nian'an arrive late, Yin Furen was slightly displeased, though she didn't show it on her face. After a few arrangements, everyone was soon seated.

To Xu Nian'an's right was Yin Furen, and to her left were the First Branch's **Da Nainai** Qin **Shi** and **Er Nainai**(2nd) Wei **Shi**. Next to Wei **Shi** were the Second Branch's two legitimate daughters-in-laws (the wife of legitimate sons), Mei **Da Nainai** and Sun **Er Nainai**. Next to Sun **Shi** was **Er Taitai** (wife of the 2nd master), Ning **Shi**, followed by **Si Taitai** Liu **Shi** (wife of 4th master), **Wu Taitai** Jin **Shi** (wife of the deceased 5th master), and Jin **Shi**’s daughter-in-law, Jia **Er Nainai**.

The maids and servants moved lightly and neatly, serving hot dishes and fruit wine in an orderly manner. All the hall doors/windows were open, allowing the cool breeze and the fragrance of flowers to fill the air. Looking up, one could see the scenic lake and mountains. The women chatted and ate, enjoying themselves.

After eating for a while, the atmosphere at Yin Furen's table gradually became more relaxed. **Si Taitai** Liu **Shi**, glanced at Xu Nian'an, set down her chopsticks, and smilingly called out, "Xi **Ge’er**'s wife." 

Xu Nian'an raised her eyes.

**Si Taitai**, seeing her looking over, smiled even more amiably and said, "This morning, **Guogong Yé** said that you are the most sensible one, and I can see that too. Your mother-in-law has always been busy with household affairs. In the future, you should share her burdens, constantly urge Xi **Ge’er** to make progress. After all, at his age, the Fifth Branch's Xu **Ge’er** has already passed the Tongshi exam."

Yin Furen's hand holding the chopsticks stiffened, and her expression changed slightly. 

However, as if she hadn't noticed, **Si Taitai** continued to smile at Xu Nian'an and asked, "Xi **Ge’er**'s wife, what do you think? When do you think Xi **Ge** can pass the Tongshi Exam? If he can't pass this year, he can do it next year, right?"
