---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 13"
snippet: "What are they doing, all sticky and dragging each other now?"
order: 13
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

How should a new daughter-in-law respond to such a remark? Everyone at the table pretended not to hear, but secretly they were all watching Xu Nian'an's expression.

Xu Nian'an calmly laid down her chopsticks, gently dabbed at the corner of her mouth with a handkerchief, and looked up at **Si Taitai** with a bright smile. "**Si Shenshen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="the wife of father's 4th younger brother"></sup> is right. There is a saying, 'Be strict with yourself and lenient with others'. If **Si Shenshen** cares so much for her nephew, she must have even higher expectations for her own descendants. One wonders, when did the Fourth Branch's **Tangxiong**s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older male Tang cousins"></sup> pass the Palace examination? What official rank do they hold now? If time allows it, is it possible to give some guidance to the studies of our **San Yé**?"
<div class="author-note">
殿试 (diànshì): The Palace Examination. This was the final and highest level of the imperial examination system, presided over by the Emperor himself.
</div>

This time, **Si Taitai** was taken aback.

Yin Furen's expression eased slightly as she leisurely took a bite of her food.

"How can my daughters-in-law compare to you, niece-in-law? Most of them can't even recognize complex characters. I heard that *your honorable father*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="令尊 (lìngzūn): A formal, respectful way to refer to someone else's father."></sup>, Xu **Daren**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. Master; a title uses to refer to an official."></sup>, was once a Wujing Boshi at the Imperial Academy. With my niece-in-law's scholarly background, advising Xi **Ge** will surely be twice as effective. It's not something ordinary women can match." **Si Taitai** spoke loudly, her tone was quite a bit like a rolling knife cutting through meat.

The laughter and chatter at the other tables in the hall noticeably quieted down, with everyone now paying attention to what was happening at Yin Furen's table.

Yin Furen was extremely angry, but due to her status as the eldest sister-in-law, she couldn't directly scold **Si Taitai**. She suppressed her anger so much that the veins on her neck bulged out.

"One afraid One can't agree with **Si Shenshen**'s words," Xu Nian'an said calmly and gracefully, showing no signs of anger. "From ancient times to the present, I have never heard of any wise and virtuous pillar of the state who was motivated by a woman's admonition rather than by their own efforts. If **San Yé** achieves something in the future, it will be due to his own efforts, not my advice. If we were to follow **Si Shenshen**'s logic," she turned her clear, black moist eyes towards **Wu Taitai** and Jia **Er Nainai** (from the Fifth Branch) with a smile, "since Fifth Branch's Huanxu **Tangxiong** has made no progress in three years since passing the Tongshi Examination at sixteen, should we blame **Er Saozi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="2nd 嫂子(saozi) - elder sister-in-law"></sup> for not coming from a scholarly family and not being able to advise Huanxu **Tangxiong** to progress?"

**Wu Taitai**'s expression suddenly changed, and Jia **Shi** was also very embarrassed, putting down her chopsticks and lowering her head.

The legitimate **Er Guniang** (2nd young lady) of the First Branch at the neighbouring table, Zhao Shuxian, also became angry and said, "When **Si Shenshen** speaks to **Tangsao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of elder Tang cousin; cousin-in-law"></sup>, what right does **Tangsao** have to without cause or reason insult my **Er Ge**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="2nd brother"></sup> and **Er Sao**?"

Yin Furen saw that everyone was confronting her daughter-in-law, and she was about to lose her temper but then heard her new daughter-in-law, who had just entered the family, speak mildly and softly, "What good intentions does **Si Shenshen** have? Please forgive **Zhixi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="niece-in-law"></sup> for being dull, but One really can't see it. Is it possible that in this entire household, only our **San Yé**, at sixteen, has not yet passed the Tongshi Examination? Why does **Si Shenshen** only criticize me and not other daughter-in-laws? Is it because I'm new here and easy to pick on? Furthermore, it's okay to mention our **San Yé** not passing the Tongshi Examination, but not Huanxu **Tangxiong** not passing the Provincial Examination, what is the logic behind this? Is it that in **Si Shenshen**'s eyes, only Huanxu **Tangxiong**'s face matters, but our **San Yé**'s face does not? If that's the case, **Zhixi** would rather not have **Si Shenshen**'s 'kind intentions'."

Whispers and murmurs began to rise in the side hall, and **Si Taitai**'s thick-skinned face turned as red as a pig's liver.

Feeling the subtle glances from around them, Jia **Shi**, unable to bear the embarrassment, excused herself, saying that she was feeling unwell, and left the table.

Zhao Shuxian was already angry that Xu Nian'an had ignored her earlier, and now that she saw her own sister-in-law leaving in anger, she couldn't contain her rage. She raised her voice again, saying, "**Tangsao**, you haven't answered me yet!"

Xu Nian'an immediately looked towards **Wu Taitai** with a look of distress and said, "**Wu Shenshen**, **Tangmei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="younger female Tang cousin"></sup>’s words, *you* say, should I hear it, or should I not?"

**Wu Taitai**'s expression froze. She inwardly hated that her daughter was unable to control her temper and was useless. At the same time, she admired Xu Nian'an's skill.

At this moment, Yin Furen looked at **Wu Taitai** Jin **Shi**, who had a face as if she had swallowed a cockroach. She felt so delighted in her heart that she almost wanted to burst into laughter three times. This woman was accustomed to using others as pawns while she watched from the sidelines. It was the first time she had seen someone like her being unable to come up with a response when asked directly.

"Xian'er, why don't you apologize to your **Tangsao**? Even if your **Tangsao** has many faults, it's not your place as a younger sister-in-law from another branch to lecture her." **Wu Taitai** said tepidly to Zhao Shuxian at the neighbouring table.

Zhao Shuxian was unwilling, her face stiff and stubborn, as if she wanted to argue further. However, she was stopped by Zhao Shutong, legitimate daughter of the Fourth Branch, who was sitting beside her. Zhao Shutong pulled her sleeve and restrained her.

She (Xu Nian’an) didn't want to give Zhao Shuxian a chance. She said to **Wu Taitai** anxiously, "**Wu Shenshen**, before rushing to ask **Tangmei** to apologize to **Zhixi**, can *you* first point out where **Zhixi** is wrong so that **Zhixi** can correct oneself?"

**Wu Taitai**: "....." These words can be said indirectly, but how could she say this openly? Is this new daughter-in-law of the First Branch just like a piece of sticky brown candy? You can't get near her an inch, or she'll relentlessly stick to you.
<div class="author-note">
"Brown candy" is used to describe a person who is very thick-skinned, shamelessly does things, is stubborn, and does not easily yield.
</div>

Seeing Xu Nian'an's skill with words, others were not willing to risk diverting the attention and speak up for **Wu Taitai** at this moment. In the extremely awkward atmosphere, **Wu Taitai** could only force a smile and say, "I just said it thoughtlessly."

Xu Nian'an's lips curled into a slightly charming and gentle smile. "When **Zhixi** was at home, One's mother often taught me that a daughter's reputation is very important and should not be spoken of carelessly. One did not expect that the rules in the Guogong household would be different from those in our family. **Zhixi** has learned from this experience. Thanking **Wu Shenshen** for the guidance."

**Wu Taitai**: "....."

Yin Furen reprimanded softly, "Don't talk nonsense. The reputation of the young ladies in the Guogong household naturally cannot be spoken of casually. It's just that your **Wu Shenshen**'s rules are different from others!"

Xu Nian'an respectfully said, "**Xifu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="daughter-in-law"></sup> will abide by Mother's teachings."

Yin Furen glanced at **Wu Taitai** Jin **Shi**'s reddened cheeks and said with satisfaction, "Alright, let's stop talking. Let's eat quickly, or the food will get cold."

After the meal, **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai** were the first to leave. Yin Furen, who had vented her anger through Xu Nian'an’s mouth, was in a good mood. She walked slowly behind with the female relatives of the family.

When they arrived at the pomegranate tree in front of the Zhilan Hall, they saw Zhao Huanxi waiting there with Xiaowei and the others. A forthright married woman (maybe one of the daughter-in-laws in the house) who was walking beside Yin Furen burst into laughter and said, "Aiyo, isn't this Xi **Ge’er**? Here waiting for? Is it your mother or your wife ah?"

Zhao Huanxi's fair and handsome face flushed instantly, and he stammered, unable to speak.

Xu Nian'an intervened to smooth things over for him, saying, "Ren **Da Saozi** likes to joke around. Can't **Sanlang** wait for both Mother and me?"

Zhao Huanxi nodded quickly, which caused everyone to start laughing.

Xu Nian'an stood with him under the tree, waiting for everyone to pass before following slowly behind towards Jiaxiang House.

Zhao Huanxi turned his face towards her and whispered, "I know what happened in the right side hall." He had probably also had a few cups of fruit wine at the table, and the faint fragrance of fruit wine wafted over Xu Nian'an's face as he spoke.

Xu Nian'an tilted her head and looked at the fine visible fuzz on his cheeks under the sunlight, asking with interest, "It spread to the left side hall so quickly? Who spread it?"

"Jie **Ge'er**, he was playing outside with a group of children. Suddenly he ran to find me and said he saw **Si Shenshen** and **Wu Shenshen** bullying you, asking me to go help you. I remembered you telling me not to interfere in women's matters, so I said my mother was over there and I didn't need to go. **Zufu** heard me speak and looked at me with great satisfaction. I felt a bit embarrassed. After dinner, **Zufu** called **Si Shufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="father's 4th younger brother"></sup> away, and he didn't look very happy." Zhao Huanxi chattered.

Xu Nian'an reached out and patted the back of his head, approvingly saying, "This young man can be taught."

Zhao Huanxi grabbed her wrist and glared, saying, "Don't get fresh with me." 
<div class="author-note">
动手动脚 - (idiom) lit means to use one's hands and feet; actions involving physical contact or teasing between men and women (could also mean flirting).
</div>

Xu Nian'an looked at his hand holding her wrist. She had just raised her hand to pat the back of his head, and her light sleeve slipped down, so his grab held her flesh and skin without any barriers.

The young man's slender fingers, untouched by the spring sunshine water, were fair and delicate. The young woman's fair wrist, which is not easily revealed, was bright and translucent. 
<div class="author-note">
The word used was 阳春水. "阳春" (yáng chūn) literally means "spring sunshine," which can imply a sense of purity and freshness. When combined with "水" (shuǐ), meaning "water," it creates an image of clear, clean water, which is often used to symbolize purity or innocence. So, in this context, "阳春水" is not referring to literal water or any specific substance, but rather symbolizes a state of being pure and untainted. The phrase "不沾阳春水" suggests that his fingers are so pure and pristine that they do not even touch the purest of waters.
</div>

Zhao Huanxi followed her gaze. Only then did he perceive that the touch in the palm of his hand was warm, soft, smooth, and fine, holding it felt very comfortable. He let go suddenly as if burnt, and looked up to see a string of maidservants behind him staring at him and Xu Nian'an.

He became embarrassed and annoyed, so he sent the maidservants to walk in front and walked behind with Xu Nian'an.

"How bold of you. You actually dare to openly contradict **Si Shenshen**, ridicule **Wu Shenshen**, and even make **Er Tangsao** drive away in anger?" Zhao Huanxi looked at Xu Nian'an admiringly.

"Today is our first day after marriage. If they had any respect for the First Branch or for your mother, they shouldn't have made things difficult for me today. Since they did, it shows they deliberately didn't give face to your mother or the First Branch. In that case, why should I give them any face? They're just **Shenshen**s from other branches. They want me to be a bullied little daughter-in-law, but I won't stand for it!" Xu Nian'an said, "But **Er Tangsao** is indeed innocent and got caught up in this. Count it as my fault toward her."

Zhao Huanxi was in a very good mood, sometimes picking willows, sometimes picking flowers by Xu Nian'an's side, saying, "They always like to compare me with Huanxu **Tangxiong** to anger my mother. My mother needs to maintain her status, and I am not very good at fighting back. So my mother can only swallow her anger and not fight back. Today is the first time someone has stood up for my mother against them. My mother must be very happy."

Xu Nian'an glanced at him sideways and said, "Oh, you're so shameless to casually admit you’re falling short of expectation like it's nothing!"

Zhao Huanxi hurriedly replied, "It's not that I don't want to work hard to improve, but I just can't compete with Zhao Huanxu in academics. What can I do?"

Xu Nian'an leaned over and looked at him, saying, "So you do want to resolve to improve. The so-called dislike for studying is actually due to the frustration of not being able to keep up with others, right?"

"You have such an annoying mouth!" Zhao Huanxi turned his head away and ran ahead, leaving her behind.

In the alley next to Jiaxiang House, Zhao Huanxi suddenly remembered he needed help to find a painting teacher. So, he waited for Xu Nian'an there. When she arrived, he asked with a smile, "Is what we discussed this morning still valid?"

Xu Nian'an pretended and asked, "What matters?" 

Zhao Huanxi stomped his foot and said, "How could you forget!"

Xu Nian'an couldn't stop laughing, and Zhao Huanxi realized he was being teased again. Despite feeling annoyed, he grabbed her sleeve and dragged her towards Shenhui Courtyard, saying, "I don't care, you promised, you can't back out now. I'm going to paint, and you'll watch."

Just as Yin Furen finished escorting the women back, she saw Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an dragging each other towards Shenhui Courtyard in the side alley. She whispered in confusion to Nanny Su, who was following her, "Didn't you say nothing happened (on their wedding night)? What are they doing, all sticky (lovey-dovey) and dragging each other now?"

Nanny Su looked at the silhouette of the young couple and said, "No matter what they're up to, as long as **San Nainai** can keep **San Yé** in check and prevent him from thinking about that person surnamed Pang, it's all good." 

Madam Yin, however, was not quite at ease and said, "When things happen contrary to the norm, there must be an 'evil' presence afoot."

<div class="aewoo-ramble">
  <div class="ramble-title">⟡ Aewoo’s Ramble ⟡</div>
  <p>This chapter was so fun to translate. She counters every Wu Taitai word like a QUEEN! Translating this while listening to Derniere Danse by Indila took me to another level of satisfaction (it’s like im watching their verbal fight in an edit >3<)</p>
</div>

<br><br>
