---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 14"
snippet: "Zhao Huanxi was so angry that he nearly fell back."
order: 14
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The Shenhui Courtyard, though small, is well-equipped. 
<div class="author-note">
There’s actually an idiom used here, which is 麻雀虽小，五脏俱全 that means ‘The sparrow may be small but it has all the vital organs’. It refers to something that is small but complete in every detail.
</div>

In front of the gate stands a large painted oil screen. Upon entering the main gate, on its left and right are East and West wing rooms. In the middle is a small courtyard, with three main rooms on the north connected to the wing rooms on both sides by covered walkways. The West wing room of the main room is Zhao Huanxi's study, while the East wing room connects to a corridor that leads to the backyard. The elder maids like Xiaowei, Xiaorong, and those who were brought by Xu Nian'an, Yisu and Mingli live in the rear cover rooms in the backyard.

Zhao Huanxi pulled Xu Nian'an eagerly through the small courtyard and into the study, only to find that no one was attending to the brushes and ink. 

He turned back and asked Xiaowei and the others who were following behind, "Where is Zhiyi and Zhi'er now?"

Xiaowei answered, "Replying to **San Yé**, they might be waiting at the Second Gate." 

Zhao Huanxi replied, "Go call them."

"No need, you only need to write a few words. I'll grind the ink for you." Xu Nian'an said with his back to Xiaowei and the others, while signalling to Zhao Huanxi with her eyes.

Zhao Huanxi didn't quite understand, but that didn't stop him from acting according to Xu Nian'an's intention. "You all can go down first."

After Xiaowei and the others left, Xu Nian'an went over and closed the door of the study. Turning back to Zhao Huanxi, he said, "Since your mother doesn't allow you to paint, we have to be careful in our actions. The fewer people who know, the better. Otherwise, even I might not escape your mother's reprimand."

Zhao Huanxi suddenly realized, "You're right. I was carried away by the moment and forgot." He went to pour water and grind the ink himself.

Xu Nian'an strolled leisurely around Zhao Huanxi's study. 

There were not many decorations, but each item was of great value. A simple pink celadon paper-weight vase (usually used to hold up brushes) with flower patterns, when examined carefully, was actually from the former dynasty's official kiln (the style of porcelain is of the previous dynasty’s). A plain brush washer, upon closer inspection, turned out to be a piece of secret-colour (ceramics with a unique hue achieved through special techniques) porcelain from the Yue kiln of the same period. In addition, there were Hu brushes, Hui ink sticks, Xuan paper, and Duan inkstones. Not to mention the large bookshelf made of reddish-brown sandalwood, which emitted a faint fragrance that refreshed one’s mind the moment they stepped into the study.
<div class="author-note">
All the things mentioned are high-quality scholarly tools.
</div>

"What should I paint?" Zhao Huanxi quickly ground the ink, spread out a sheet of Xuan paper, used a jade ruler to hold it down, picked up a purple-haired brush, and with bright and clear eyes, inquisitively looked at Xu Nian'an for suggestions.

Xu Nian'an came to her senses and took out a copy of "Memorial for Nephew" from the pile of copybooks on the bookshelf, placing it beside Zhao Huanxi. She said, "Let's not rush to paint. You're not fond of studying. If you dive into the study on the first day of your marriage, wouldn't Mother be curious? Later, someone will surely come to see what you're up to in the study. Wait until you've satisfied Mother's curiosity, then it won't be too late to paint. Practice calligraphy for a while first."
<div class="author-note">
The "Memorial for Nephew" (祭侄文稿) is a calligraphy piece written by Yan Zhenqing in memory of his nephew. It is a draft written with deep sorrow and anger, reflecting Yan Zhenqing's emotions at the time. The piece is highly regarded for its historical and artistic value, and it is considered one of the finest examples of Yan Zhenqing's calligraphy.
</div>

Zhao Huanxi looked down and shouted when he saw the title of the copybook, "Why practice this one? I don't want to."

"Why?" Xu Nian'an was puzzled.

"This copy has too many characters. I want to practice one with fewer characters." Zhao Huanxi picked up the copybook and was about to go to the bookshelf to change it.

Xu Nian'an didn't stop him, but just asked, "Since Mother doesn't allow you to paint, have you thought about how to hide it from her if you want to continue learning?"

Zhao Huanxi turned to look at her, then looked at the copybook in his hand. "Are you suggesting that if I practice this copybook, Mother will agree to let me continue learning painting?"

"Of course not."

"Then why did you say that?"

"But if you can win **Zufu**'s favor and get his support for your painting, Mother won't object. And **Zufu** likes this copy by Yan Qingchen the most," Xu Nian'an said.
<div class="author-note">
Yan Qingchen is the courtesy name of Yan Zhenqing, the author of the book.
</div>

She walked over and pushed the confused young man back to the desk, coaxing him gently, "When one path is blocked, you have to think of another way. Think carefully, why didn't Mother allow you to paint? Is it because you didn't pass the Tongshi Examination like your Xu **Tangxiong**? You are the eldest legitimate grandson of Jing Guogong Residence, born with a life of wealth and nobility. Even if you don't achieve fame, you can live comfortably all your life relying on the family's inheritance. Why does Mother insist on pushing you to study and progress? Isn’t it all because Xu **Tangxiong** passed the Tongshi Examination, won **Zufu**'s favor, and often belittles you in front of **Zufu**, making you unpopular with him?"

After thinking about it for a while, Zhao Huanxi couldn't grasp the main point and asked Xu Nian'an with hesitation, "Is it more important for me to win **Zufu**'s favor than to pass the imperial examination?"

"Of course. In the Guogong Residence, **Guogong Yé** is the head of the family. As his children and grandchildren, whoever wins his favor can gain more benefits from him. Whether it's the distribution of family property or the inheritance of titles, it's all closely related to his favor," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi glared angrily at Xu Nian'an. "Your appearance of disregarding family affection and pursuing only profit is truly ugly!"

Xu Nian'an extended her hand towards him and glanced at him. "You may have a noble character and disdain calculation, so please give me my house and two shops now. For the next three years, I will accompany you in living a carefree life, without worrying about whether you can properly arrange things for me when we part ways."

Zhao Huanxi's cheeks turned red and white alternately. He pushed her hand away in anger and said, "You'll get it when we part ways. Why should I give it to you now?"

Xu Nian'an gave him a disdainful look and said, "If you can't afford it, then you can't afford it. Why pretend to be a big shot?!"

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Yin Furen rested for a while after drinking a cup of tea at Jiaxiang Hiyse. After dealing with several steward and **Pozi**s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="middle-aged servant woman"></sup> who came to consult her, she had some free time and started thinking about her newly married son and daughter-in-law.

"You say, who should be in charge of the servants in Shenhui Courtyard in the future? Nanny Hou is loyal, but she's too straightforward and lacks a sense of protocol. It was fine when she was only serving Xi **Ge**, but now that Xu **Shi** has come, if we let her continue, Xu **Shi** might think we don't have capable people under us."

As Nanny Su peeled and cut the peaches into slices, she handed the plate to Yin Furen with a smile and said, "Seeing Furen in such a good mood today, One thought *you* must really like **San Nainai**."

Yin Furen picked up a slice of peach with her fork and said, "Each to their own. From what I've seen today, Xu **Shi** is not easy to deal with. If I underestimate her, won't she end up stepping all over me?"

"That's not true. Today in the main hall, she spoke well of our **San Yé** in front of **Guogong Yé**. In Zhilan Hall, when she saw **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai** disrespecting you, she immediately retorted fiercely, showing that she is on the side of **San Yé** and *you*," said Nanny Su.

"That's a smart move. Since I only have Xi **Ge** as my son, as long as she takes care of him well, how can I treat her unfairly?" Yin Furen felt even more delighted when she thought of the expressions of Liu **Shi** and Jin **Shi** at that time. She took a bite of the peach and felt the juice abundant and sweet as honey.

She asked Nanny Su, "Are these peaches from our garden?"

Nanny Su replied, "Indeed. They were just picked. We are still selecting them outside. Qianhe washed a few and brought them over for you to taste."

"This spring, we had little rain and many sunny days, so the peaches have indeed grown well. Pick the best basket to send to Shenhui Courtyard, the best basket to send to **Guogong Yé**'s Dunyi Hall, and another three baskets to send to Jiashan, Jiayin, and Jiaxian. Ai, my poor Jiayi, following her husband to guard Xuanzhou (the Xuan Provincial), I don't know when she'll be able to come back." Thinking of her eldest daughter, Yin Furen couldn't help but sigh again.

Nanny Su comforted her, saying, "Although **Da Gu Nainai** is far away, she often sends letters home to report her safety. Furen, please don't worry too much."
<div class="author-note">
姑奶奶 (Gūnǎinai) - when the daughter of a household got married, their title of address also change from guniang to gu nainai. The 'Da' here indicates she's the eldest sister.
</div>

Yin Furen said, "I know worrying is useless, but I can't help but miss her. After selecting the peaches from these places, distribute the rest to the various households." She couldn't help but smirk, "Don't forget the Buddha Hall."

Nanny Su smiled and agreed.

Yin Furen thought for a moment and then said, "Why don't we give Songyun to Shenhui Courtyard? This girl is quite efficient. Xu Nian'an only brought two maids when she married over, and we need to add a few more maids to Shenhui Courtyard, or they won't be enough to manage."

Nanny Su replied, "Shenhui Courtyard only has **San Yé** and **San Nainai**. Their food, clothing, and expenses are all managed by *you*, Furen, so there's not much need for so many maids. If we give them too many, it might disturb **San Yé**'s studies."

"When has he ever studied? I've been waiting for him to study so long my hair has turned white," Yin Furen complained. "Never mind. Send the peaches over, and call Xiaowei and the other maidservants over to see what Xi **Ge** and Xu **Shi** are up to."
<br>

In the small study of Shenhui Courtyard, the young couple were still arguing.

"How can you be like this? I say one thing last night, and you cry; today, I say something, and you curse at me. It's obvious that your tears last night were all fake," Zhao Huanxi said.

"Based on those words, when you spoke just now, were you trying to make me cry again? You're mistaken. Crying hurts the body. I won't let your anger hurt me and my body. From now on, if you anger me, I'll curse at you. We're not a real couple anyway, so I'm not afraid of you!" Xu Nian'an walked away, waving her handkerchief.

Zhao Huanxi threw the copybook on the desk and walked a few steps to Xu Nian'an, annoyed. "You always have so much to say. Why not just speak louder so the whole courtyard can hear you?"

"Pah<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="呸 - [expressing disdain, annoyance or disapproval] Could also mean to spit."></sup>! You want me to speak louder, so I'll speak louder. Who do you think you are?" Xu Nian'an spat lightly and turned away, ignoring him.

Zhao Huanxi was so angry that he nearly fell back.

At this moment, Xiaowei's voice came from outside the study, "**San Yé**, **San Nainai**."

Zhao Huanxi impatiently replied, "What is it?"

"**Taitai** has sent Jinyin **Guniang** to bring peaches for *you* and **San Nainai**," said Xiaowei.

Xu Nian'an turned around, locked eyes with Zhao Huanxi for a moment, then swiftly returned to the desk, spread out the copybook, and picked up the brush. After writing a character, she said, "Come in."

Xiaowei pushed open the door to the study, and an elegant-looking elder maid in a light purple apricot blossom half-sleeve dress entered, carrying a fruit tray.

"**San Yé**, **San Nainai**, **Da Taitai** instructed **Nubi** to bring the freshly picked peaches from the garden and to ask Xiaowei and Xiaorong to go to Jiaxiang House; she has something to said to them," Jinyin said as she approached and bowed to the couple.

Zhao Huanxi replied indifferently, "Go ahead."

Jinyin handed the fruit tray to Xiaowei, then approached the desk with a smile, asking, "What is **San Yé** doing?"

Zhao Huanxi, knowing that she was here on behalf of his mother, raised his arm openly and said, "Practicing calligraphy."

Jinyin saw the copybook spread out on the desk with characters written on it and couldn't help but smile. "**San Yé** is so diligent. **Taitai** will surely be pleased to hear about this. **Nubi** will take leave now," she said.

Zhao Huanxi pretended to nod in a calm manner. As soon as the two maids left, he put down his brush, hurried out from behind the desk, and excitedly approached Xu Nian'an as he exclaimed: "You really can foresee things!"

Xu Nian'an held a large, round peach in her hand, without lifting her eyes, and said in a charming voice, "After all, I don't just care about personal gain and profit. If I didn't have some foresight, how could I have achieved this?"

Zhao Huanxi felt stung by her words and didn't know how to respond. He took the peach from her hand with a smile and said, "Dear good **Jiejie**, let me peel the peach for you."
