---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 16"
snippet: "Order Xu Shi to copy the 《Lessons for Women》 in the ancestral hall one hundred times as a punishment. "
order: 16
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---
罚徐氏去祠堂抄写《女诫》一百遍
Punish Xu's family to transcribe the 《Lessons for Women》 one hundred times in the ancestral hall.

In the study, Zhao Huanxi walked to the desk and looked at the three characters written. He deliberately asked Xu Nian'an, "Should I continue practicing these characters?"

Xu Nian'an came over, put away the copybook, and stuffed it into the bookshelf, saying, "The people who came on behalf of **Taitai** have all left. What's the point of continuing to practice? You said you like painting, so what style do you like? Do you prefer the Boneless Landscape style of Gu Zhang, or the Majestically solemn style of Jing Guan Dong Ju? Or perhaps the bold and simple style of Li Liu Ma Xia?"
<div class="author-note">
没骨山水 (meigu shanshui) - Boneless Landscape: a style of Chinese landscape painting that does not use ink outlines to depict scenes. Instead, it directly portrays the objects and scenery with large areas of ink or color.<br>
荆关董巨 - Jing, Guan, Dong, Ju; The Four Great Masters of the Five Dynasties: Refers to Jing Hao, Guan Tong, Dong Yuan, and Ju Ran in the history of Chinese painting. <br>
李刘马夏 - Li, Liu, Ma, Xia; The four masters of the Southern Song: Li Tang, Liu Songnian, Ma Yuan, and Xia Gui. They are known for "one-corner" compositions and "ax-cut" brushstrokes—very bold and expressive styles.
</div>

Zhao Huanxi's eyes lit up like the first lamp in a dark night, looking at Xu Nian'an excitedly. "You actually understand these? And you can even say so many famous names in one breath!"

Xu Nian'an smiled faintly. "Just a little knowledge of mine". One can’t do business without flattering others. She was originally a woman confined in the inner chambers. If she didn't have some breadth of knowledge, what could she talk to others about?

"I'm telling you, my favorite..." Zhao Huanxi pulled Xu Nian'an's sleeve and sat back down by the window, talking non-stop with great enthusiasm. All thoughts of the handkerchief and the peaches were thrown out the window.

Xu Nian'an looked at the young man in front of her with a focused expression. He had a pair of very attractive phoenix eyes (eyes slanting a bit upwardly), which actually seemed somewhat sharp. However, because he was young, the double eyelids that overlapped halfway to the ends of his eyes resembled new marks carved into tender jade. His eyelashes were long, and his gaze was gentle. Looking at him naturally gives no sense of imposing aura at all.

He talked incessantly, and she nodded from time to time, sometimes chiming in with interest, and at other times offering different opinions. Zhao Huanxi was thrilled, but he lamented not having a long, thin tail like a dog's that he could wag to her to show his joy when he was happy.

On one side, the young couple in the study were talking lively, while on the other side, the atmosphere in Jiaxiang House was also quite pleasant.

Yin Furen, upon hearing from Jinyin that Zhao Huanxi had not gone out to play on this beautiful afternoon but was practicing calligraphy in the study with Xu **Shi** accompanying him, felt that what **Si Taitai** had said at the table, "If one can’t do it this year, one can do it next year," seemed quite possible, and she was in a very good mood.

After inquiring about the situation with Xiaowei and other maids from Shenhui Courtyard, Yin Furen decided to send two senior maids, Songyun and Nuanxing, to Shenhui Courtyard. The ordinary maidservants would only be responsible for cleaning, fetching water, and guarding the door, as  eight of them were already enough, and there was no need to add more.

In the future, maidservants in Shenhui Courtyard would be managed by Songyun. As for the two maids that Xu **Shi** brought, Yin Furen's intention was for Xu **Shi** to take care of them herself, and their monthly allowances would be issued from the household treasury.

"The others are not important. The most important thing is to take care of **San Yé** and make sure the young couple doesn't cause any trouble. If anything happens, inform me immediately." Yin Furen solemnly instructed the maids in front of her. 

The maids all responded in agreement.

"There are still some peaches left. Take them back for the two that Xu **Shi** brought. What are their names again?"

"Replying to **Taitai**, one is named Yisu, and the other is named Mingli," Xiaowei hurriedly replied.

"Share these peaches with the two maids. In the future, do the same. Don't exclude them just because they came as part of the dowry. Don't quarrel or cause trouble in Shenhui Courtyard. If I hear about it, the good days will be over." Yin Furen's words carried an air of authority without anger.

The maids all replied in a subdued manner, holding their breath.

"Go back and tell **San Yé** and **San Nainai** to come to my room for dinner tonight."

Yin Furen dismissed the maids, and Nanny Su came up and said, "**Taitai**, tonight is **Da Nainai*'s turn to serve *you* dinner. Should I still ask her to come?"

Yin Furen frowned and said, "Send someone to let her know that she doesn't need to come tonight."

As the sky darkened, Zhao Huanchao, the First Branch's **Da Ye** (eldest master), who served as a Administrative Assistant in the Central Military Governor's Office, returned to the Guogong Residence and saw Qin **Shi** talking to the maidservants inside the room.
<div class="author-note">
都事 (Dūshì): An Administrative Assistant or Office Manager. This was typically a rank 7a or 7b official post—a respectable mid-level bureaucratic position. <br>
中军都督府 (Zhōngjūn Dūdǔfǔ): The Central Military Governor's Office. This was one of the five supreme military headquarters, responsible for military administration and personnel.
</div>

Seeing Zhao Huanchao return, Qin **Shi** attended to him, helping him wash his face and hands while instructing the maidservants to set the table for dinner.

"Isn't it your turn to serve at Jiaxiang House today?" Zhao Huanchao was tall and burly, bearing a striking resemblance to **Da Laoye** Zhao Mingkun (his father). However, his square and upright face had slightly more compact features, making him appear less imposing.

Qin **Shi** sneered and said, "Now that they have their own legitimate daughter-in-law serving over there, why should I go there?"

Zhao Huanchao sat down heavily at the table and said irritably, "It's good you don't have to go. Who has enough patience to bear to serve her?! Where are the children?"

"They've already eaten under the care of the wet nurse. They're probably playing outside now," Qin **Shi** said as she took the bowl and chopsticks from the maidservant's hands and served Zhao Huanchao himself.

After everything was arranged properly, Qin **Shi** gave a signal to her personal maidservant, Cuiping, who then led the other maidservants to withdraw.

"Looking at this situation, it seems like there's no hope for Furong Pavilion," Zhao Huanchao said, his mood not very pleasant.

While serving him food, Qin **Shi** said, "Xu **Shi** has both lived in the Count Residence and experienced the world outside. Her skills are not something that a girl like Daixue can compare with. But Jie **Ge’er** said that **San Yé** still has feelings for Daixue. We'll have to wait until their bursting-passion of newlywed is over before anything can happen."

"In this case, even after their passion has cooled, Daixue may not necessarily be able to compete with Xu **Shi**. It would be better for you to find a suitable person as soon as possible, prescribe the right medicine for the right illness, in order to cure it completely," Zhao Huanchao said solemnly.
<div class="author-note">
"对症下药" (duìzhèng xiàyào) means "to prescribe the right medicine for the illness," which is a metaphor for taking appropriate and effective measures to solve a problem. "药到病除" (yào dào bìng chú) means "the medicine reaches the illness and the illness is cured," implying that by addressing the root cause or the specific problem directly, one can achieve a complete cure or solution.
</div>

"I will keep it in mind," Qin **Shi** said.

"What happened at Zhilan Hall this noon?" Zhao Huanchao asked.

"Oh, it's the same old story. The Fifth Branch used the Fourth Branch attack **Da Taitai**'s face. Who would have known they would encounter this iron plate Xu **Shi**, who gave them a tongue-lashing that left both Fourth Branch and Fifth Branch feeling embarrassed. However, the Fifth Branch's *best play*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="拿手好戏 - (idiom) the play that an actor perform best
"></sup> hasn't been used yet. Just wait and see, I’m afraid this matter’s sequel is yet to come," Qin **Shi** said, covering her mouth with a handkerchief as she laughed.
<br>

Yin Furen sent someone to call them for dinner, so Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an came out of the study.

After leaving Shenhui Courtyard, Xu Nian'an walked at her usual pace towards the front of Jiaxiang House. Zhao Huanxi walked briskly ahead for a while, then turned back and saw Xu Nian'an lagging behind. He ran back and took her wrist, saying, "You should walk faster."

"What's the rush? It's just a few steps away. You won't starve to death," Xu Nian'an complained, stumbling a few steps as he pulled her along.

"Aiya, I'm not in a hurry to eat..." Zhao Huanxi said halfway, then turned to look at the maid following behind and whispered to Xu Nian'an, "Didn't we agree to go back after dinner to watch me paint?"

"Well, we have plenty of time. No rush," Xu Nian'an said, not wanting to run and jump around like him, regardless of her image.

"I want to hurry. Hurry up," Zhao Huanxi acted stubbornly, pulling her and running.

"Aiya, you let go quickly. My bun is about to fall! Aiya..." Xu Nian'an said, being pulled along by him while reaching to hold her hairpin in place.

"Hahaha, I just won't, haha!" Zhao Huanxi laughed as he pulled Xu Nian'an along like the wind, with the maids following behind, suppressing their laughter.

"What's the matter? You seem so happy? I could hear you laughing from afar," 

As Zhao Huanxi dragged Xu Nian'an into the main room of Jiaxiang House, they ran into Yin Furen who came out from inside.

"Nothing much, just thinking about having a meal with Mother, that made me happy," Zhao Huanxi said, knowing how to please others when he was in a good mood.

Xu Nian'an adjusted her hairpin and took a moment to catch her breath, then she greeted Yin Furen with a bow.

Yin Furen looked at her son, full of spirit and vitality, quite different from his demeanor in the past few days. She felt happy and said, "You're the one who always so eloquent. The meal is ready, let's all go in."

The three of them entered the room, with Zhao Huanxi helping Yin Furen to sit down before taking a seat beside her. 

Xu Nian'an naturally took the bowl handed to her by a maid, served Yin Furen some food, and then picked up her chopsticks, standing by Yin Furen's side, ready to serve her dishes.

The maid had also served Zhao Huanxi his food. When he picked up his chopsticks and looked up, he saw Xu Nian'an standing beside Yin Furen with her chopsticks. He was surprised and asked, "What are you standing there for? Come over and sit down."

Yin Furen was silent. 

Xu Nian'an said, "**Sanlang**, please go ahead and eat, don't need to worry about me. I'll serve Mother to eat."

Yin Furen found the presence of Qin **Shi** and Wei **Shi*,, the two wives of *shu* sons, an eyesore. Every time she ate with Zhao Huanxi, she did not let them serve on her side. As for Buddha Hall's **Lao Taitai**, she was **Guogong Yé**'s second wife<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="the wife a man married after the death of his first wife"></sup>, not Yin Furen's blood-related mother-in-law, so she couldn't be bothered to serve her either. That's why Zhao Huanxi still didn't know that after marriage, daughters-in-law were supposed to serve their mothers-in-law during meals.

"Serve Mother during meals? Why? Don't we have maids in the house?" He looked puzzled and turned to Yin Furen.

Yin Furen remained silent. 

Xu Nian’an said in a low voice: "**Sanlang** don't have to worry. It's just the practiced rule."

"Practiced rule?" Zhao Huanxi rolled the word on his tongue, then looked at Yin Furen. "I understand now. Even if there are maids in the house, the daughter-in-law must serve her mother-in-law during meals, to show filial piety, is that it? Well, that's easy. Before my older sisters got married, Mother always advised them, 'At home, obey your father; after marriage, obey your husband'. This means that when Dong J… Nian'an married me, she also obeys me. So, if I show filial piety to you, isn't that enough? As long as I show you filial piety, Nian'an naturally shows you filial piety alongside me."

Zhao Huanxi grinned and placed a chicken leg into Yin Furen's bowl. "A chicken has two legs, and since childhood, these legs have been for me. Now, I want to show filial piety to Mother, so I offer Mother a chicken leg. Mother, please let Nian'an sit down and eat with us. If she stands while we sit and eat, even the best dishes won't taste as good."

Yin Furen looked up and met the pleading gaze of her youngest son, his eyes sparkling. Half playful, half pleading, he looked at her with anticipation. How could she resist? She turned to Xu Nian'an and said, "Your husband dotes on you. Naturally, I can't be an unreasonable and wicked mother-in-law. Sit down, and eat with us."

"Thank you, Mother." Xu Nian'an sat down beside Zhao Huanxi and whispered a thank you to him. "Thank you, **Sanlang**."

Zhao Huanxi blushed and handed her another chicken leg. "Consider this chicken leg a token to buy your loyalty. You must promise to be filial to Mother with me from now on."

"Taking care of Mother is already my duty as a daughter-in-law. There's no need for bribery." Xu Nian'an returned the chicken leg to Zhao Huanxi's bowl.

"Can you please don;t refute me in front of Mother? I told you to eat, so eat." Zhao Huanxi placed the chicken leg back in Xu Nian'an's bowl.

"Taking care of **Sanlang** is my first duty in showing filial piety to Mother. Since **Sanlang** is still growing, this chicken leg should be given to **Sanlang**." Xu Nian'an placed the chicken leg back in Zhao Huanxi's bowl.

Yin Furen couldn't stand to see them arguing over a single chicken leg, so she gave her own chicken leg to Xu Nian'an and instructed Nanny Su beside her, "Next time we cook chicken, tell the kitchen to put three chicken legs."

Nanny Su responded with a smile. 

Yin Furen turned around to find that Zhao Huanxi had once again placed his chicken leg into her bowl. 

Just as the three of them were enjoying their meal, a maid came in unexpectedly and reported, "Furen, there's someone from Lingde Hall here."

"Who is it?"

"It's Nanny Li."

Yin Furen frowned, set down her chopsticks, and went to the outer room. She said, "Invite her in."

An older woman servant, dressed in a brown jacket with a sharp and sour expression, entered the room. She greeted Yin Furen and said, "**Da Taitai**, **Lao Taitai** heard that her granddaughter-in-law, Xu **Shi**, behaved improperly at the Zhilan Hall today, bringing ridicule upon the family. She has ordered Xu **Shi** to copy the 《Lessons for Women》 one hundred times in the ancestral hall as punishment, starting immediately."
<div class="author-note">
《女诫》(Nǚjiè): The Commandments for Women (or Lessons for Women). A historical text by Ban Zhao used to instruct women on humility, resignation, and subservience within the Confucian family structure.
</div>
