---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 17"
snippet: "Transcribing books or showing affection?"
order: 17
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Yin Furen was so angry that she stood there dumbfounded.

Nannu Li glanced towards the inner room and said, "One may have to trouble **Da Taitai** to let Xu **Shi** come out and follow **Laonú**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this old servant woman"></sup> to the ancestral hall to receive the punishment."

Zhao Huanxi jumped up with a loud noise, ready to go out and argue. Xu Nian'an hurriedly grabbed him and whispered, "**Lao Taitai** is going to punish me. It's no use causing a scene. The more you protest, the harsher the punishment will be. When a label of disrespectfulness towards elders, defiance, and unfilial behavior is pinned on, no one can bear it."

"Then what should we do?" Zhao Huanxi became anxious.

"It's just copying the Lessons for Women a hundred times, not a big deal. You and Mother go ahead and eat. Just bring me some food later," Xu Nian'an said reassuringly as she lightly pressed his arm. She then went to the outer room, bowed to the pale-faced Yin Furen, and said, "Mother, **Erxi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="daughter-in-law"></sup> indeed behaved improperly in the Zhilan Hall today. **Zumu**'s punishment is for my own good. Please don't worry, *your* health is more important. **Erxi** will be going now."

Watching Xu Nian'an being taken away by Nanny Li, Yin Furen was so angry that her liver hurt (extreme anger or frustration). She almost tore the handkerchief in her hand in half. However, when **Lao Taitai** has given order, she, as a daughter-in-law, did not dare to say a word against it in front of others.

Until everyone had left, she finally released the breath she had been holding, her chest heaving as she gasped for air, pointing in the direction of the Lingde Hall, saying to Nanny Su, "That Old *Qianpo*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="老虔婆 -  a treacherous and cunning old woman; a very harsh and derogatory term used to insult elderly women."></sup>, to my son, she's just a step-grandmother. How dare she have the audacity to extend her hand into my son’s affairs for the sake of the Fifth Branch!"

Nanny Su quickly pressed her and said, "**Taitai**, **San Yé** is still here."

Yin Furen turned her head and saw Zhao Huanxi. She suddenly felt embarrassed, remembered Xu Nian'an's words before leaving, "*your* health is more important", and had a sudden realization. Her eyes rolled back, and she fainted.

Zhao Huanxi was both anxious about Xu Nian'an being taken away for punishment and surprised by his mother calling his grandmother "old Qianpo." He was at a loss when he saw his mother faint. Hastily, he rushed over to help support Yin Furen and shouted outside, "Quick, go fetch the doctor!"

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After finishing his dinner, Jing **Guogong** was preparing to go out at a friend's invitation. He happened to encounter a young servant boy running towards the stable as if his pants were on fire. He stopped him and said, "Which branch's servant, so unruly?! Running recklessly in the mansion, what kind of discipline is this??"

The servant boy hurried over and knelt on the ground, trembling as he said, "**Guogong Yé**, please forgive. **Xiaoren**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="小人 - lit. this little person"></sup> is the son of Nanny Su, who manages affairs at Jiaxiang House. **Da Taitai** fainted, so my mother told me to quickly go and fetch the doctor for **Taitai**. That's why One was in such a hurry. **Guogong Yé** please forgive, please forgive!"

"**Da Taitai** has fainted? Wasn't she fine during the day? How did she suddenly fall ill?" As the eldest daughter-in-law, she managed the household affairs and had been very competent for many years, so she was highly regarded by **Guogong Yé**.

The servant boy shrank back in fear and did not dare to speak.

"What's the point of hiding your head and your tail? Just say what you need to say!" **Guogong Yé** has a straightforward tempe. He couldn't stand seeing people dawdle like this, so he scolded the boy.

The servant boy immediately knelt on the ground, his voice trembling as he said, "It's because **Lao Taitai** punished our **San Nainai** to copy the Lessons for Women a hundred times for the incident in the Zhilan Hall. **Da Taitai** was so angry that she fainted."
<br>

"I heard **Da Taitai** was so angry that she fainted!" Inside the courtyard of the Fifth Branch, Zhao Shuxian laughed as she spoke, then fell into the arms of **Wu Taitai**.

**Wu Taitai**'s normally dull face lit up with a trace of joyous smile. She said, "Today is Xu **Shi**'s first day entering the door (the family), and she's already been punished by **Lao Taitai** to copy the Lessons for Women in the ancestral hall. I wonder how this First Branch's pair of mother-and-daughter in-law will hold their heads high in the future!"

"No matter how clever and eloquent she is, can she surpass her elders? If she's capable, she should go argue with **Zumu** in the ancestral hall!" Zhao Shuxian reached out to take a piece of peach from the fruit plate with a silver fork. Just as she was about to eat, there was a sudden commotion outside, occasionally mixed with children's crying.

The mother and daughter looked out the window for a moment. "It seems to be coming from your brother and sister-in-law's side," **Wu Taitai** said. She called out to the maid at the door, "Mulan, go and see what's going on."

Mulan acknowledged and went out. Shortly after, she returned and reported, "**Taitai**, it’s **Er Yé** who came back from drinking outside. **Nainai** saw traces of rouge on his shoulders and asked about it. **Er Yé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="2nd Master"></sup> became impatient, slammed the door and left."

**Wu Taitai** couldn't help but sigh.

On the other hand, Zhao Shuxian remarked casually, "In my opinion, women who are overly pampered at home are not suitable for marriage. They make a big fuss and cry over trivial matters when things don't go their way in their husband's family. Since ancient times, scholars have been fond of the pleasures of life. When **Er Ge**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="2nd (older) Brother"></sup> goes out to drink and socialize with his friends, it's inevitable that there will be some elegant activities, such as a bit of rouge staining his clothes. It's not like he brought someone home. Is it worth causing such a fuss?!"

**Wu Taitai** said, "What worries me is that your brother and sister-in-law have only one daughter. If they keep quarrelling like this, when will I ever get to hold a grandson?"

Zhao Shuxian was about to speak when Mulan reported from outside, "**Taitai**, **Er Guniang**, Nanny Hu from Dunyi Hall (Guogong Ye’s hall) is here and wishes to see **Er Guniang**."

Upon hearing this, **Wu Taitai** hurriedly led Zhao Shuxian out from the inner room.

Nannu Hu first paid her respects to **Wu Taitai** and Zhao Shuxian before saying, "As **Guogong Yé**’s order, the Fifth Branch's **Er Guniang** Zhao Shuxian, for her lack of manners and stirring up trouble, is to copy the Lessons for Women two hundred times in the ancestral hall as punishment!"

**Wu Taitai** was dumbfounded, and Zhao Shuxian's legs went weak as she leaned against her.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the solemn and dignified ancestral hall of the Zhao family, memorial tablets were arranged in rows, and the candlelight cast a dim, eerie glow. A gust of wind swept through the hall, causing goosebumps to rise on the necks of those present.

"**Xiaojie**, let me go close the windows," Mingli said, moving to close them.

"Impudent! Can the windows in the ancestral hall be closed casually?" Nanny Li scolded, her face darkening.

Mingli wanted to argue, but Yisu held her back and said to Xu Nian'an, "**Xiaojie**, **Nubi** will go back and fetch a cloak for *you*."

Xu Nian'an nodded. She was kneeling down beside the table placed on the right side of the ancestral hall. Mingli lit the lamp on the table for her, as she poured water and ground ink, her hands moved quickly and neatly.

Yisu quickly fetched the cloak and draped it over Xu Nian'an. Xu Nian'an had just copied half a page when Zhao Shuxian arrived, with a face as if she was attending a funeral, accompanied by maidservants and a *Pozi* (middle-aged female servant) carrying writing brushes, ink, paper, and inkstones.

Nanny Li was very surprised. "Xian **Guniang**, why have *you* come?"

Zhao Shuxian glared fiercely at Xu Nian'an and said, "It's all because of that black-hearted troublemaker who went to **Zufu** to complain!"

Xu Nian'an lifted her head and gave Zhao Shuxian a gentle and graceful smile, nodding slightly. 

This made Zhao Shuxian even angrier.

Nanny Li instructed the maid who had come with Zhao Shuxian to keep an eye on them, then hurriedly left.

Zhao Shuxian ordered the servants to place the table right in front of Xu Nian'an, so they faced each other across the spacious hall, locking eyes.

Compared to her resentment and anger, Xu Nian'an remained much calmer and composed. As she calmly copied onto the second page, Zhao Huanxi arrived with Songyun and others, carrying food boxes.

Xiaowei quickly moved a cushion and placed it beside Xu Nian'an.

Zhao Huanxi knelt down beside her and said, "My mother fainted just now, so I was delayed for a moment before coming. You must be starving, right?"

"Mom fainted? Is she alright?" Xu Nian'an asked him.

"She woke up after Nanny Su pressed her philtrum, and we've already sent for the doctor. She said she's fine and asked me to quickly bring you food." Zhao Huanxi had Songyun and the others bring out the food and place it at the end of the table. He said to Xu Nian'an, "You eat first, I'll copy for you while you’re eating."

"You all dare to cheat!" Zhao Shuxian shouted from across the room.

Xu Nian’an smiled as she said, "No need, anyway, I won't finish copying even if I work all night anyway."

Zhao Huanxi glanced at Zhao Shuxian and asked Xu Nian'an, "You won't finish copying even if you work all night? How long will it take then?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "I made a rough estimate. It will take at least half an hour to copy it once, so a hundred times would be fifty hours. A day has twelve hours, so if I only copy at night, it will take me at least five hours, which means I'll need to copy for about ten days."

"Ah, it takes so long! So Shuxian **Meimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="younger sister"></sup> will have to copy for twenty days?" Zhao Huanxi exclaimed with satisfaction. "After all, **Zufu** punished her to copy for two hundred times!"

Xu Nian'an suppressed a laugh and whispered, "Don't take pleasure in other’s misfortune, it's not dignified."

Zhao Huanxi snorted and also whispered, "I insist. Who told her to harm others and herself."

Zhao Shuxian was so furious that she shouted at the maidservant to light two more lamps brightly.

Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi switched seats. Xu Nian'an ate her meal while Zhao Huanxi read the 《Lesson for Women》. 

Xu Nian'an found it funny that the chicken leg that had been passed around on the table during dinner was eventually brought to her. She wanted to talk to Zhao Huanxi about it, but when she turned her head, she saw him reading the 《Lessons for Women》with great concentration. Surprised, she remained silent.

After finishing her meal, the two switched seats again. Xu Nian'an looked at Zhao Huanxi, who was still sitting next to her as if lost in thought, and asked him, "Aren't you going back?"

"What's the point of me going back?" Zhao Huanxi replied, feeling bored.

Xu Nian'an whispered, "Didn't you say you were going to paint tonight?"

Zhao Huanxi was very disappointed as he said, "I'm not in the mood to be alone while you copy the《Lessons for Women》. I'll stay with you. It just so happens that I haven't looked at the painting book I bought last time." After this afternoon's conversation, he had already regarded Xu Nian'an as a confidante. Although Pang Daixue also supported his painting, she only had a superficial understanding of art, and could only agree with whatever he said. Xu Nian'an was different; he could feel her genuine interest and unique insights, which often inspired him and made their discussions more enjoyable.

Xiaowei and the others took the food box and left, but soon returned with a painting book, tea, and cut fruits for him. 

Nanny Li also came and went, without saying much, her face looking even worse, her droopy eyelids staring intently at Xu Nian'an's side.

"Have a peach," Zhao Huanxi ate a slice of peach himself as he nudged Xu Nian'an with his elbow.

Xu Nian'an, holding a brush, found it bothersome. "You eat, I'm not hungry."

Zhao Huanxi glanced at her hand holding the brush. "I'll feed you." He then skewered a slice of peach with a silver fork and offered it to her.

"No need, really..." Xu Nian'an tried to refuse, but the peach slice reached her mouth, so she had to open up and eat it.

Several maids behind them stifled their laughter.

Nanny Li who was sitting on a stool by the door, let out a loud cough upon seeing this.

On the other side (of the room), Zhao Shuxian looked at them with envy and bitterness. Although she disliked Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi, she had to admit that in terms of appearance alone, the two of them made a truly stunning couple.

She couldn't help but wonder, the person she was going to marry in the winter, would he treat her as well as Zhao Huanxi treated Xu Nian'an?

Thinking of her fiancé, she felt a bit shy and withdrew her gaze, no longer looking at Xu Nian'an. She focused on copying 《Lessons for Women》 instead.

With the painting book to look at, Zhao Huanxi managed to sit still. However, by the time of Hai Hour (亥时 - 9 p.m to 11 p.m), he had finished the book and began to fidget, looking rather bored.

Xu Nian’an said to him: "You should go back and rest."

"But you said it would take ten days to finish copying. Are you going to stay up all night?" Zhao Huanxi asked.

"If I copy for five hours each day, it will take ten days. How many hours have I copied today? I'm fine, you should go back first," replied Xu Nian'an.

Zhao Huanxi pouted, looking somewhat unhappy.

Just then, Yin Furen sent over supper—three bowls of steaming hot shrimp wontons. The skin of the wontons was tinted with the color of shrimp, garnished with golden egg flowers and emerald green scallions, making them look mouthwatering.

Following Yin Furen's instructions, Xu Nian’an, Zhao Huanxi, and Zhao Shuxian each got a bowl.

Zhao Huanxi used a spoon to scoop up a wonton, wiped the spoon clean of soup on the edge of the bowl, blew on it gently to cool it down, and then offered it to Xu Nian'an for her to eat.

Xu Nian'an was focused on copying the book and was startled by his actions. She gently pushed his hand away and said, ”I'm just copying a book, not disabled. I don't need you to feed me everything. I can do it myself.”

Zhao Huanxi insisted, "Ultimately, you're being punished here because of me. What's the big deal if I feed you a few wontons? You fed me peaches this afternoon, so let's consider this as returning your gesture with wontons."

Xu Nian'an looked at him. His lips were red, his teeth were white, and his eyes sparkled under the lamp light. She knew that his actions were not driven by any romantic feelings between man and woman, but rather a care akin to that between siblings or friends. She smiled faintly, lowered her gaze, and accepted the wonton he offered once again.

Nanny Li couldn't stand it and coughed loudly again.

Zhao Huanxi, annoyed, turned his head and said to her, "Is Nanny Li's throat uncomfortable? Do you want me to have someone brew a pot of medicine for you to drink?"

Nanny Li lowered her eyes. "**Laonu** is fine. Thanking **San Yé** for the concern."

Zhao Huanxi snorted and turned to Xu Nian'an. "I'm not going back tonight, to prevent that arrogant servant from bullying you while I'm away! Xiaowei, go to my study and bring my writing supplies. After we finish supper, I want to practice calligraphy!"
