---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 18"
snippet: "The two of them slept so deeply that they lost all sense of time."
order: 18
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

At the hour of the Zi Hour (midnight; 11 p.m. to 1 a.m.), **Guogong Yé** had just returned to the residence. On his way to the Dunyi Hall, he couldn't help but stop and look in the direction of the ancestral hall.

The personal attendant beside him, Xiangzhong who was carrying a lantern for him, asked quietly, "**Guogong Yé** wishes to go visit the ancestral hall?"

"En." **Guogong Yé** turned his steps towards the ancestral hall.

Inside the ancestral hall, everything was in disarray. Xiaowei and the others had been sent back by Xu Nian'an, but Songyun and Nuanxing, the two new maids who were eager to show their worth, insisted on staying with Zhao Huanxi here. However, they couldn't resist and fell asleep on the floor with their head leaning against the walls.

Mingli was lying on her stomach using a cushion, snoring softly, while Zhao Huanxi lay directly on the table.

On Zhao Shuxian's side, from the young lady to the maids, everyone was sound asleep, each in a different sleeping position. Even Nanny Li and Nanny Hu, who were guarding the entrance to the ancestral hall, had fallen asleep sitting up.

Since Zhao Shuxian arrived, all the windows of the ancestral hall had been closed, but despite this, the ancestral hall was still very cold and damp.

Yisu stealthily took away the brush Zhao Huanxi had been holding before he fell asleep, moved the inkstone aside to prevent it from being knocked over later. Xu Nian'an took off her cloak and covered Zhao Huanxi with it, then turned to Yisu and said, "There's nothing to do now. You can go back to Shenhui Courtyard."

"*You* see Mingli sleeping like a little pig. It is better for *Nubi* to stay with **Xiaojie** to make sure **Xiaojie** is not left unattended in case something happens." Yisu took out a needle and thread from a nearby box and sat beside the table, embroidering flowers by the light from the table.

Seeing this, Xu Nian'an knew she was determined not to leave, so she didn't say anything more. She picked up her brush and continued copying the book.

Outside the ancestral hall, **Guogong Yé** turned back and walked towards home, with Xiangzhong holding the lantern to light his way.

"Send someone early tomorrow to call both of them back. There’s no need to continue copying the rest."

"Understood."

"Pass my words, the maidservants and *Pozi*s of Lingde hall are not to allow the younger generation to disturb **Lao Taitai** during her meditation. Those who fail to comply will be penalized with three months' salary deduction. Also, the servants in the Fifth Branch who attend to Xian **Guniang** are to be disciplined for not advising her to be more cautious in her words and actions. They will be penalized with six months' salary deduction."

"Understood."

"Inform **Laoda**'s wife, that for Xi **Ge’er**'s wife *Sanzhao Huimen*, the etiquette must not be taken lightly."
<div class="author-note">
In a traditional large Chinese family (especially a noble one like a Guogong estate), children are rarely referred to by name by their elders. Instead, they are referred to by their birth order, and in this case, since the children are adult, they're referred to as:<br>
老大 (Lǎodà): The First/Eldest.<br>
老二 (Lǎo'èr): The Second.<br>
老三 (Lǎosān): The Third... and so on.
<br><br>
三朝回门 (sān zhāo huímén): The ritual return to the bride's maiden home on the third day after the wedding.
</div>

"Understood."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

As the sky began to brighten, a maid came to deliver a message from **Guogong Yé**, saying that Xu Nian'an and Zhao Shuxian could both return, and there was no need to continue copying the rest.

Zhao Shuxian was helped away by the maidservants.

Zhao Huanxi, still half asleep, squinted at the sky outside and asked, "Is it morning or evening?" There was a large patch of red marks on his cheek from the embroidery on his sleeve.

Xu Nian'an chuckled and instructed Songyun and Nuanxing, "Help **San Yé** back to Shenhui Courtyard."

Zhao Huanxi turned to her and asked, "Aren't you going back?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "Etiquette must not be neglected. I will go to Jiaxiang House to greet Mother."

Zhao Huanxi wiped the corner of his mouth, which was faintly stained with saliva. Now, fully awake, he said, "I'll go with you."

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment and said, "That's fine too. After we've paid our respects, you can go back to sleep."

The young couple, accompanied by four maids, set off towards Jiaxiang House, amidst the morning chirping of birds and the fragrance of flowers.

In the courtyard of Jiaxiang House, there were already quite a few people standing, divided into two groups. One group was larger, consisting of stewards and Pozis from various branches who had come to collect tokens and money. The other group was smaller, and from a distance, they appeared to be dressed in fine clothes and looked respectable. Upon closer inspection, they were **Da Nainai** Qin **Shi**, **Er Nainai** Wei **Shi**, and Zhao Huanxi's two *shu* (younger) sisters, Zhao Jiahui and Zhao Jiarong.

Zhao Huanchao, Zhao Huanyang and Zhao Jiahui were all born to Concubine Du. **Da Nainai** Qin **Shi** and **Er Nainai** Wei **Shi** stood together with Zhao Jiahui, talking. Beside them were four children—two boys and two girls. Qin **Shi**'s youngest son, Zhao Yucheng, had just turned one year old, so it seemed he didn't need to get up early to pay respects to Yin Furen.

Zhao Jiarong stood with an unfamiliar woman who was probably her birth mother, Concubine Shen.

Seeing Zhao Huanxi and his wife, Zhao Yujie, with his younger siblings, surrounded Zhao Huanxi, calling out "**Xiao Shushu**." Qin **Shi** affectionately called out, "**San Dimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="弟妹 (dimei) - younger brother's wife"></sup>, you're here too."

Xu Nian'an walked over with a smile and exchanged greetings with everyone around in a respectful manner.

"**San Dimei** looks so tired. Why don't you go back and rest first? Mother is kind, surely will understand," Qin **Shi** said with concern to Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an smiled and replied, "Thanking **Da Sao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="eldest sister-in-law"></sup> for the concern. Paying respects to Mother won't take long. One hasn't slept all night, so One is not in a hurry."

Concubine Shen and Zhao Jiarong stood aside, watching them with a smile, but they didn't approach.

After a while, Qianhe, the head maid from Yin Furen's room, came out and greeted everyone, raised her body up and said, "Words from **Taitai**, there are many matters to attend to today, so it may take a while. Dear **Nainai**s and **Xiaojie**s, please return for now. Consider the respects paid for today."

As everyone walked towards their courtyard, Qianhe hurried a few steps and said to Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi, "**San Yé**, **San Nainai**, please stay."

Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an stayed behind. Qin **Shi** and Wei **Shi** exchanged a knowing glance, bid farewell to Zhao Jiahui, and left Jiaxiang House with the children through the courtyard gate.

"In this battle, thanks to the blessing of our **San Dimei**, our First Branch has won a great victory," Qin **Shi** said, instructing the maids to lead the children ahead while she and Wei **Shi** walked behind.

"Even if Xian **Jie'er** was punished, it's just a draw. How can we say we had a great victory?" Wei **Shi** took out a handful of raisins from her pouch<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="荷包 - embroidered pouch (or pocket in a grament) for carrying things"></sup>, offered half to Qin **Shi**, but Qin **Shi** declined.

"Could it be that **Dimei** hasn't heard about the servants of Lingde Hall and the Fifth Branch being penalized?"

Wei **Shi** was astonished: "Even the servants of Lingde Hall were penalized? Did **Guogong Yé** issued the order himself?"

"Exactly!" Qin **Shi** adjusted her handkerchief. "Now in this household, those in charge of internal affairs and those in charge of external affairs are all *worshipping* our **San Di**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="3rd younger brother"></sup> wife. The two of us will have to be careful in our service in the future."
<div class="author-note">
主内主外 (Zhǔ nèi zhǔ wài): "Those who manage the internal [domestic] and those who manage the external [official/business]." This refers to the total power structure of the estate.<br>
小心供奉 (Xiǎoxīn gòngfèng): To "serve or attend to with great care," often implying treating someone like a deity or someone untouchable. It is used sarcastically here to show resentment.
</div>

Wei **Shi**, filled with jealousy, whispered, "Even if everyone supports her, what can a mere woman achieve? Someone like **San Di**, One afraids, even with support, he won't amount to much. In the end, he'll still have to rely on **Da Ge** (Qin Shi's Husband/Zhao Huanchao)."

Qin **Shi&& said, "No matter how capable your **Da Ge** is, he can't support everything alone. Fortunately, you and **Er Di** (Wei Shi's husband) are there to support him."

Wei **Shi** smiled and said, "Why does **Da Sao** speak as if we're outsiders? After all, compared to our **San Dimei**, the two of us are the true sisters-in-law."

Qin **Shi** also smiled, "**Dimei**'s words are true."
<br>

In the main hall of Jiaxiang House, Qianhe helped the maids set the table while saying to Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an, "**Taitai** is in the next room handling affairs and will be busy for a while. She said the two of *you* should have breakfast here and then go back to rest. There's nothing much for the day, but you can come back here for dinner in the evening."

"Understood. Please thank Mother on behalf of me and Nian'an," Zhao Huanxi said. Qianhe smiled and withdrew.

The young couple returned to Shenhui Courtyard after breakfast. Xu Nian'an freshened up first, followed by Zhao Huanxi.

While Zhao Huanxi was freshening up, Xu Nian'an called Songyun and Nuanxing and asked, "In the future, which one of you will be in charge of the maids in this courtyard?"

Songyun answered, "Replying to **San Nainai**, **Taitai&& said that besides Yisu and Mingli, who *you* brought here, the maids in this courtyard will be under my supervision, but I will be under *your* management."

Xu Nian'an nodded and said, "First, remember to guard our courtyard gate. Except for **Guogong Yé**, **Da Taitai**, and **Lao Taitai**, anyone who wants to enter must wait outside and be announced before they can come in. Yesterday, when I and **San Yé** were in the study, Jie **Ge'er** and a group of children just barged in like that. If such a thing happens again, I will hold you responsible."

Songyun said, "**Nubi** understands and will remember."

Yisu laid out the bedding and came out. Xu Nian'an then instructed Songyun, "Explain to the others: Those who stayed in the ancestral hall last night should have breakfast and rest. Xiaowei and the others who stayed in the courtyard can stay to serve."

After sending away the maids, Xu Nian'an closed the door and went to the inner room, where she found Zhao Huanxi already wearing his undergarments, lying on the bed with his black hair cascading down his back.

The night before yesterday, blowing out the candle didn't feel awkward, but now, in broad daylight, she was at a loss for what to do.

Xu Nian'an tried hard to suppress the embarrassment of undressing in front of a man. She took off her outer garment and climbed onto the bed from the foot (the end of the bed), but before she could get under the quilt, Zhao Huanxi suddenly rolled over and sat up, startling her.

"Why are you so startled?" 

Xu Nian'an maintained a kneeling position, staring at him wide-eyed.

"Dong **Jiejie**, are you tired? If you're not, let's chat for a while." Zhao Huanxi sat cross-legged on the bed, smiling. While not exactly bursting with energy, he certainly didn't seem sleepy.

Xu Nian'an: "......I am tired." She continued to crawl under the quilt.

"You're just trying to fool me. Your eyes are wide open, you don't look tired at all. Let's just talk for a while! Let's continue from where we left off last time, about the painting of flowers and birds." Zhao Huanxi reached out to pull her arm.

Unexpectedly, Xu Nian'an was pulled down onto the bed by him. Zhao Huanxi burst into laughter. "Dong **Jiejie**, you look like a big tortoise." He chuckled as he flipped her over.

Xu Nian'an, annoyed, pushed him away. "You're so annoying! Don't you know the difference between men and women?"

Zhao Huanxi had been holding her arm. When she pushed him, her sleeve was pulled, causing her neckline to slide down to her shoulders, revealing a large expanse of delicate, white skin and a corner of the embroidered lily camisole in peach blossom color.

Zhao Huanxi's gaze fixed on her. 

Xu Nian'an quickly closed her neckline, turned, and burrowed into her quilt, ignoring him with her back turned.

There was a rustling sound behind her, as if he had also crawled into the quilt.

Xu Nian'an secretly breathed a sigh of relief, but then heard his curious voice in her ear, "Dong **Jiejie**, what's that peach-coloured thing you're wearing inside? It looks really nice!"

This big fool! 

Xu Nian'an buried her face in the quilt, not wanting to pay him any more attention.

The two of them slept so deeply that they lost all sense of time.

Although Zhao Huanxi didn't sleep well last night while lying on the desk, he did manage to sleep, so he woke up earlier than Xu Nian'an.

He turned his head to look at the sunlight outside, the shadows of trees cast on the window grilles. The sun had begun to slant westward, it was probably already past noon.

The courtyard and the room were both quiet. Zhao Huanxi turned his head towards the inner side (of the bed) and looked at Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an was still sound asleep, her eyes peacefully closed. Her rosy lips were slightly parted, revealing a glimpse of her neat, white teeth inside.

Zhao Huanxi found this amusing. He rolled over and leaned closer to her, carefully counting, "One, two..." Only the front two teeth were visible through the small gap.

He mischievously extended a finger, pressing it against her chin and gently pushing upwards.

Xu Nian’an's lips moved uneasily, her rounded lips forming a petal-like shape.

Zhao Huanxi couldn't see her teeth anymore and felt bored. He put his fingers against her plump lower lip and exerted gentle pressure.

Her tender lips were forced apart again, and a clear bubble formed between her upper and lower lips.

Zhao Huanxi stared wide-eyed and couldn't help but chuckle. 

Startled by his laughter, Xu Nian'an tilted her head, pursed her lips, fluttered her eyelashes, and slowly woke up.

As soon as she opened her eyes, she saw a magnified beautiful face in front of her. The face was too close, as if it was about to come in for a kiss. 

She blinked and instinctively moved her head back.

"Dong **Jiejie**, you're awake!" Zhao Huanxi exclaimed joyfully, his tone like a child seeing their favourite toy. 

Xu Nian'an: "....." Seeing the bright daylight and having nothing to do, and with this harmless person beside her, she closed her eyes again, pretending to go back to sleep. 

"Aiya, Dong **Jiejie**, get up, get up. You can sleep again tonight," Zhao Huanxi shook her through the blanket. 

Xu Nian'an was annoyed by his persistence. She opened her eyes and asked, "What exactly do you want to do?"
