---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 20"
snippet: "Your Da Jie managed to marry into a high-ranking household and has become so very 'promising'—go fawn over her!"
order: 20
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---
Your eldest sister has to marry into a noble family, she'll have a bright future. Flatter her!

The atmosphere stiffened for a moment. 

Xu Mojing awkwardly defended himself, “I did wash it."

"Your nail edges have white, peeling skin. If you just washed your hands, how could they be so dry? If you didn't wash them, just say so. There's no need to lie and touch me." Zhao Huanxi said displeased.  

Xu Mojing: "..."

"Please excuse (us), it's because there aren't enough servants in the house. **Tang Xiong**, please come this way." To ease the embarrassment, Xu Moxiu led Xu Mojing to wash his hands.

Xu Nian'an turned her head and couldn’t help but smile when saw that Zhao Huanxi still had a look of discontent on his face.

Her smile was contagious, and the maids behind her couldn't help but giggle. Finally, even Zhao Huanxi smiled and whispered to Xu Nian'an, "Your **Tang Xiong** does not really love cleanliness ah, and he even lies too."

"It's nothing to worry about since we don't often interact," Xu Nian'an said.  

The two arrived in front of Zheng Furen's room. Zhichun happily lifted the curtain and called inside, "Furen, **Da Gu Nainai** and **Da Guyé** have returned."
<div class="author-note">
姑奶奶 (Gūnǎinai): A formal title used by servants to refer to a married daughter of the house. <br>
姑爷 (Gūye): The formal title used by servants for the husband of the daughter.<br>
adding the 大 (Dà) at the front indicates thi is the first daughter.
</div>

As Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi entered the inner room, they saw four people sitting in front of Zheng Furen's bed. They were **Da Bomu** Dong **Shi**, Xu Hai'an, her second sister whom she hadn't seen in five years, as well as her fourth sister Xu Qi'an and the fifth sister Xu Hui'an.

Upon seeing Zhao Huanxi enter, everyone was stunned. Zheng Furen, upon seeing her eldest daughter, became extremely excited, sitting up straight from her reclining position on the pillow.

Xu Nian'an quickly took a step forward to support her, saying, "Mom, take it easy. Be careful not to get dizzy from getting up too quickly."

Tears welled up in Zheng Furen's eyes. She was about to speak while holding her eldest daughter's hand when suddenly, a clear and resounding voice came from beside her ear, "**Xiao Xu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="小婿 - I [spoken to parents-in-law]; this son-in-low"></sup> pays respects to **Yuemu Daren**."
<div class="author-note">
岳母大人 (Yuèmǔ dàrén): Yuemu is a formal, respectful term for mother-in-law (specifically the wife's mother). The addition of 'Daren' (大人) adds a layer of high-status formality.
</div>

Zhao Huanxi stood in front of the bed, made a deep bow to Zheng Furen, and then straightened up.

On the day of the wedding, Zheng Furen was not feeling well and did not personally see Xu Nian'an off, so she had not met Zhao Huanxi before. This was the first time she had laid eyes on her son-in-law. Upon seeing him, she couldn't help but be startled. The reason was simple: this new son-in-law looked too young and too good-looking. Just by standing there, he made the whole room seem brighter.

"It's... Huanxi…?" Zheng Furen muttered subconsciously.  

"It is me, **Yuemu Daren**," Zhao Huanxi nodded, with a hint of straightforwardness and naivety in his cuteness.

Zheng Furen came to her senses and, while instructing Zhiqiu to bring a chair and serve tea, introduced Dong **Shi** to him, saying, "**Xianxu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="贤婿 (Xiánxù): 'Worthy Son-in-law.' A formal and affectionate term of address used by parents-in-law for their daughter's husband."></sup>, this is Zhongyi **Bo Furen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of a count/Countess"></sup>, Nian'an’s **Da Bomu**."

Zhao Huanxi turned around and bowed to Dong **Shi**, saying, "**Da Bomu**."

Dong **Shi**'s round and chubby face smiled like a steamed bun. Just as she was about to speak, Xu Nian'an pointed to Xu Qi’an and Xu Hui'an beside her, saying, "This is my **Si Mei** (fourth younger sister), and this is my **Wu Mei** (fifth younger sister)."

Zhao Huanxi obediently turned around to greet his two younger sisters-in-law. Xu Qi’an and Xu Hui'an also stood up and bowed to their **Da Jiefu**.

Dong **Shi**'s expression looked unpleasant, and Xu Hai’an, who was sitting beside her, bit her lip slightly as she gave Xu Nian'an a pitiful look.

Seeing that Xu Nian'an remained silent after finished introducing Xu Qi’an and Xu Hui'an, Dong **Shi** could only smile and push Xu Hai’an forward, saying to Zhao Huanxi, "This is your wife's **Er Meimei** (2nd younger sister)."

Zhao Huanxi looked up at Xu Nian'an. She remained calm and said to him, "We separated five years ago. We are just ordinary relatives now, not close relatives. It's okay if you don't recognize her."

"Oh." Zhao Huanxi just nodded at Xu Hai'an and then sat down on the stool brought by Zhiqiu.

Xu Hai'an took a few steps forward and knelt at Xu Nian'an's feet, crying bitterly, "**Jiejie**, back then, me and my **Yiniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. concubine. But the children of a concubine would sometimes call their mother Yiniang"></sup> chose to stay in the Count Residence to lighten the burden on our family. You are so smart and capable, why can't you understand me and my **Yiniang**'s heartfelt intentions? Why are you so heartless and ruthless towards us?"

Xu Nian'an didn't even look at her, just stared at Dong **Shi** with a smile on her lips but a cold look in her eyes. "It seems **Da Bomu** has made up her mind not to let me live peacefully when I return home."

Dong **Shi** smirked and said, "Look at what **Da Jie’er** is saying. You two are blood-related sisters. Why can't you discuss any misunderstandings openly? On this day of reunion, let us family *exchange weapons of war for gifts of jade and silk*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="化干戈为玉帛 - (idiom) to turn  hostility into friendship"></sup>, and be loving and kind to each other from now on. Wouldn't that be nice?"

"Blood-related sisters?" Xu Nian'an lowered her head to look at Xu Hai'an, whose face was covered in tears. "Back then, when our family split up, because you and your **Yiniang** wanted to stay in the Count Residence, **Da Bomu** argued that since you are also Father’s flesh and blood, you should receive a portion of the dowry. She took away our Fourth Branch best 50 mu of paddy fields (≈ 8.25 acres), our grain and oil shop, and 500 taels of silver. Don't you know about this?"

"This... I, I..." Xu Hai'an's gaze started to evade.

"**Da Bomu**, regarding what I just said, did you provide the dowry for Xu Hai'an?" Xu Nian'an looked up at Dong **Shi**.

"So many years have passed, these old *sesame seeds and rotten grains*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="trivial things"></sup>, how can they still be calculated clearly..."

"Shut up!" Dong **Shi** was halfway through her sentence when Xu Nian'an shouted sternly. Not only Dong **Shi**, but everyone else in the room was also startled.

Zhao Huanxi nearly fell off the stool, his eyes wide as he looked at Xu Nian'an.

"When our family split up, due to **Zumu**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="maternal grandmother"></sup> favouritism, our Fourth Branch already received the least in the family. Yet, you used Xu Hai'an as an excuse to withhold most of the family property, not to mention you didn't leave us even a single tael of silver. That autumn, my mother was seriously ill. If it weren't for selling off my father's old belongings... Calling you '**Da Bomu**' is out of respect for my deceased father. Do you really think you are some big person (big shot), repeatedly causing trouble when you come? Do you still think we are the Fourth Branch from the Count Residence, that you and **Zumu** flattened and rounded up with your fingers as you pleased?" Remembering the past horrors, Xu Nian'an couldn't help but tighten the handkerchief in her hand, her gaze sharp.

"What? So much of the property that was allocated to us back then was actually withheld by your **Da Bomu**? Nian'an, you, why didn't you tell me?" Zheng Furen only realized at this moment what Xu Nian'an and Dong **Shi** were actually talking about, her face full of shock and disbelief.

Dong **Shi**, unable to regain her composure, became angry and started to make a scene: "How is this my problem? It was your **Er Mei** who stubbornly refused to leave the Count Residence and insisted on staying. Do you expect us First Branch to raise your Fourth Branch's daughters for nothing? Over the years, with all the expenses for food, clothing, and other necessities, plus her dowry, when you really calculate it, I'm afraid we are the ones at a loss!"

A pillow was thrown at Dong **Shi**. Startled, she turned around and saw Zheng Furen holding her chest with one hand and pointing at her with the other. "Get out! I never want to see you again in my life. Nanny Zhang, make sure she never sets foot in our house again."

Nanny Zhang immediately stepped forward and asked (in a polite manner) Dong **Shi** to go out.

Dong **Shi** sneered repeatedly, "Alright, alright, alright. You Fourth Branch thinks you’ve made it now, and wants to sever ties with us First Branch. Then, let's wait and see!"

She turned and left without anyone stopping her.

In the courtyard, she happened to run into Xu Mojing, who had come over with Xu Moxiu. Xu Mojing called out to her, "Mother, where are you going?"

"They've practically shown me the door. Do you expect me to stay here and embarrass myself? Let's go home!" Dong **Shi** said impatiently.

"Ah? Didn't you say..." 

Dong **Shi** stopped and turned around. She had intended to scold her son but saw that Xu Hai'an was still following her. Unable to hold back, she scolded, ""What are you following me for? You belong to the Fourth Branch! Your **Da Jie** managed to marry into a high-ranking household and has become so very 'promising'—go fawn over her!"" With that, she called Xu Mojing and left Xu Hai'an behind.

When Xu Moxiu saw this, he ignored Xu Hai'an and went straight to Zheng Furen's room.

With her son-in-law present, Zheng Furen felt like crying but couldn't. She was feeling uncomfortable holding back her tears. Seeing Xu Moxiu, she said, "The weather is just nice. You all don’t have to stay in the room with me. Go outside and talk. Ah Xiu, go entertain your **Jiefu** well. Qi'an and Hui’an, go to the kitchen and see how lunch is being prepared. Nian'an, stay here and talk with me."

All the children responded accordingly.

Seeing Zhao Huanxi following Xu Moxiu out while looking back at her frequently, Xu Nian'an called out to Xu Moxiu, "Ah Xiu, your **Jiefu** has painted a picture and would like you to help critique it."

Xu Moxiu glanced at Zhao Huanxi and said, "I'm not proficient in the art of painting."

"Even if one is not proficient, one can still tell good from bad. If you find it pleasing, you can take it to someone who is proficient for further evaluation," Xu Nian'an said.

Xu Moxiu hesitated for a moment before turning to Zhao Huanxi and saying, "Come with me."

Zhao Huanxi quickly followed, feeling excited.

Xu Qi'an and Xu Hui’an walked out of Zheng Furen's room and immediately saw Xu Hai'an standing in the yard, crying. They glanced at each other but neither of them went over. They walked hand in hand towards the kitchen.

"**San Di**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Third younger brother"></sup>." As Xu Moxiu passed by Xu Hai'an, Xu Hai'an sobbed and reached out, grabbing his sleeve.

Zhao Huanxi was so anxious to show Xu Moxiu his painting. Seeing Xu Moxiu being held back, he stepped forward and pushed Xu Hai'an's hand away, saying, "Nian'an has already said she doesn't acknowledge you. Why are you bothering Ah Xiu again? Are you trying to drive a wedge between them sister-brother?"

Xu Moxiu looked at Zhao Huanxi in surprise.

Xu Hai'an finally couldn't take it anymore. She ran out with her two maidservants, crying and wiping tears.

Seeing them leave, Zhao Huanxi cheerfully said to Xu Moxiu, "Let's go."

Seeing no one nearby, Xu Moxiu couldn't help but ask, "Don't you dislike my sister? Why are you getting close to me like this?"

Zhao Huanxi was caught off guard and stammered, "I-When did I ever say... I dislike her?"

Before the marriage, he was clamouring about liking someone else and unwilling to marry Xu Nian'an. Now, it seems like he actually likes Xu Nian'an. In Xu Moxiu's eyes, this undoubtedly showed he *serves the (state of) Qin in the morning and the (state of) Chu in the evening*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="朝秦暮楚 (cháoqín mùchǔ) - (idiom) quick to switch sides, fickle, inconsistent."></sup>, loving one person today and another tomorrow. If this continued, who knew how many concubines there would be in the future, and whether he would agree to divorce or not in three years was also unknown.

His facial expression became even worse, and without a word, he turned and left.

Zhao Huanxi was baffled.

The Xu family didn't have a study. In Xu Moxiu's bedroom, the bed was against the west wall, and there was a small bookshelf and a desk near the east wall.

When they arrived in the room, Xu Moxiu stood by the desk and looked Zhao Huanxi up and down before asking, "You asked me to critique your painting, so.. The painting?"

Zhao Huanxi raised his empty hands and said, "Ai ya," before running out, saying, "It's with your sister. Wait for me a moment."

Zhao Huanxi turned around to look.

Xu Moxiu ignored him and went to the desk, looking at the painting.

To his surprise, the painting done by this obnoxious noble son who appears irritating at first glance, was actually quite good.

The painting depicts a building named "Zhilan Hall" with mountains in the background and water in front of the gate. The architectural details are meticulously drawn, with a bold and vigorous brushstroke, showing a refined and moist texture. There is a hidden resemblance to the style of Dong Ju (a famous painter in Chinese history known for his landscapes).

Xu Moxiu calmed down and realized that the painting was placed directly on his desk, most likely by Yisu or Mingli, indicating his sister's intention.

"Why did you paint this? Does it have any special meaning?" he asked Zhao Huanxi.

"There's no special meaning. At the time, I didn't know what to paint, and your sister suggested painting Zhilan Hall. We had lunch there the day before yesterday," Zhao Huanxi replied honestly.

Xu Moxiu looked at the three characters "Zhi Lan Tang" (芝兰堂) and couldn't say it (the calligraphy) was bad, but it wasn't extremely good either.

Relying on the tacit understanding developed over the years with his sister, he almost immediately understood the intention behind her asking him to help Zhao Huanxi critique the painting.

"Although I am not skilled in painting, I can still see that your painting is very good," he said.

Zhao Huanxi had just shown a hint of joy when Xu Moxiu changed the subject: "But your calligraphy does not match your painting. As the saying goes, 'A person's handwriting reflects their character'. If you can only write like this, don't write on your paintings next time."
