---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 26"
snippet: "Zhao Huanxi, go study at Imperial Academy."
order: 26
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

When Xu Nian'an returned to the Shenhui Courtyard, she met Nuanxing. She asked, "Has **San Yé** returned?”

Nuanxing answered, "Replying to **San Nainai**, **San Yé** is practicing calligraphy in the study.”

Xu Nian'an paused and asked again, "When did he return?”

"He returned earlier (than expected), about an hour ago."

Xu Nian'an turned and took the meeting gift from Mingli's hands, which was given by the Zhao sisters. She instructed Mingli to go rest and then went to the study by herself.

Zhao Huanxi was indeed practicing calligraphy in the study, looking somewhat downcast. When he heard the movement, he looked up and saw Xu Nian'an. His expression softened, and he said, "You're back. What are you holding in your hand?”

"Your three sisters gave me these as the meeting gifts. I haven't seen it yet, so I brought it over to look at together." She walked over with a smile, placing three differently sized boxes on his desk. Playfully, she said, "Do you want to guess which sister sent each box? And what do you think is inside each one?”

Zhao Huanxi became interested and put down his brush, picking up the top box, which was over a foot long with a deep crimson colour. He said, "This colour is very dignified and mature. It must be from my **Er Jiejie**, right? And considering the size and weight, could it be the statue of the Guanyin Who Brings Children that Mother sought for **Er Jie** before her marriage?”
<div class="author-note">
送子观音 (Sòngzǐ Guānyīn):<br>
观音 Guanyin is a bodhisattva associated with compassion,  often depicted as a female figure and is also known as the Goddess of Mercy in Chinese Buddhism. Guanyin is believed to hear the cries of the world and to help those who call upon her in times of need.<br>
送子: lit. giving/delivering child. <br>
so 送子观音 should means Guanyin who delivers children. Devotees often pray to her for help in having children, ensuring the well-being of their offspring, and seeking protection for mothers and babies during pregnancy and childbirth.
</div>

Xu Nian'an opened the box, and inside was indeed a glossy and transculent statue of the Guanyin Who Brings Children, with *kind brows and pleasant eyes*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="慈眉善目- (idiom) amiable looking"></sup>. The Guanyin was holding a chubby baby in her arms, and the baby was holding a jade ruyi scepter ( a symbol of power and good fortune) in its tiny hands. The craftsmanship was lifelike and exquisite, almost divine.

"It's really a Guanyin Who Brings Children that **Er Jiejie** gave. **Sanlang**, you're so clever!" Xu Nian'an praised.

Zhao Huanxi smiled, put the brocade box in his hand aside, and picked up the square, wide and flat autumn fragrant-coloured brocade box below, saying, "This brocade box is very elegant in colour and pattern, and should be a gift from my **Si Jiejie**. It is so thin and large, with some weight but not too heavy, it is probably an object like a hand-embroidered screen that she embroidered herself.”

Xu Nian'an opened the box lid, revealing a screen. The frame was made of small-leaved purple sandalwood, with one side of the screen depicting flowers and birds, and the other side depicting mountains and rivers. The colour matching was fresh and simple, and the painting style was delicate and gentle.

"It's so beautiful. Your **Si Jiejie**'s needlework is excellent," Xu Nian'an said, gently stroking the embroidery on the screen.

"She has always loved these things. When they all were in their boudoir (when they're not married yet), she was the best at it." Zhao Huanxi picked up the widest and largest red brocade box at the bottom and couldn't help but smile. "There's no need to guess. It must be from my **San Jiejie**. She loves dressing up and using jewellery to make friends. If I guess correctly, there should be a set of head ornaments inside.”

Opening the box, inside was a set of jade jewelry, totaling twenty-two pieces. They were a vibrant green, transparent, and delicate, perfect for wearing in the summer.

Zhao Huanxi was slightly surprised and asked, "Why is it this set?"

Xu Nian'an asked, "What's wrong with this set? Is there a problem?”

"My mother had three sets of jade jewellery as part of her dowry, passed down from my **Wai Zumu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="maternal grandmother"></sup> through generations. When my **Da Jie** got married, my mother wanted to give her a set, but she refused, saying she wanted to leave them for her three younger sisters. So, each of my **Er Jie**, **San Jie**, and **Si Jie** received a set. This set that you have is the one my **San Jie** received, and she loves it. She cherished it so much that she was reluctant to wear it even in the boudoir, fearing the jade would get damaged.”

Xu Nian'an said, "It's okay. I won't take it away. Just consider it as me temporarily holding onto it for your **San Jie**.”

Zhao Huanxi hesitated for a moment and quickly said, "That's not what I meant."

"Don't worry, I know what to do." Xu Nian'an closed the silk boxes containing the Guanyin Who Brings Children and the jade jewellery set. She said, "These are all very precious. We need to find a suitable box to store them. As for your **Si Jiejie**'s table screen, I won’t stand on ceremony.”

Zhao Huanxi opened his mouth as if to say something, but then felt at a loss for words. His emotions, which had just been somewhat uplifted, now plummeted.

"By the way, you mentioned that your **Si Jiefu** treats your **Si Jiejie** well. Is that true?" Xu Nian'an suddenly asked.

Zhao Huanxi looked up at her. "My mother mentioned it once, so I believe it's true. Why do you ask?"

"Today, when I went out with your **San Jie** alone for a while, we returned to Jiaxiang House and I noticed that your **Si Jiejie**'s eyes were a bit red, as if she had been crying. And though your mother was smiling, she seemed distracted. Considering that your **Si Jiejie** is pregnant, I assume your mother wouldn't want her to feel upset, so any distress would likely come from her husband's family. If it were just a minor issue, your mother would have already advised her. But seeing her so preoccupied, I suspect it's something more challenging to resolve," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi's eyebrows raised slightly, his eyes widened, and he looked as if he were about to erupt in anger. However, in an instant, he seemed to think of something, and his expression softened. He looked at the words he had written on the desk and remained silent.

"Ai," Xu Nian'an tugged at his sleeve and asked, "If that's the case, should we help your **Si Jiejie**?"

"How can we help?" Zhao Huanxi raised his eyes wearily to look at her. "She's in the Wu family, and I'm in the Zhao family. What can I do to help her?"

"How would we know if we can help if we don't try? Of course, if you don't want to help, that's another matter. I don't mean to meddle." Xu Nian'an picked up the silk box from the table and turned to leave.

Zhao Huanxi reached out and grabbed her arm.

Xu Nian'an turned around.

"I certainly want to help my **Si Jiejie**, I... I just don't know what to do." Zhao Huanxi looked at her eagerly. "Should I directly ask my mother what's wrong with my **Si Jiejie**? She probably wouldn't tell me."

"Of course, you can't just ask directly." Xu Nian'an walked back and placed the silk box back on the table. She said, "Right now, everything is still just my speculation. Since you intend to inquire, we need to devise a careful plan. It should not let your mother know, yet it should help your **Si Jiejie**."

Zhao Huanxi's eyes lit up, and he asked, "What plan do you have? Tell me more."

Xu Nian'an glanced at the door, leaned in, and lowered her voice. "First, tell me, what happened when you went to **Zufu**'s today? Why did you come back so early to practice calligraphy?"

Zhao Huanxi looked embarrassed and hesitated for a while before saying, "When I went there, my **Si Jiefu**, Wu Cheng was discussing with Zhao Huanxu about attending a poetry gathering at the end of the month, hosted by the **Gongzi** from Yang **Daren**'s family, the Grand Secretary from Wenyuan Ge<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Belvedere of Literary Profundity; an imperial library, and a place for learned discussion so several Grand Secretaries were assigned here"></sup>. Zhao Huanxu mentioned the last time when I refused to go with them to the garden to compose poetry, so he asked my **Si Jiefu** to persuade me to join them and broaden my horizons. My **Si Jiefu** said since I'm not good at poetry, going wouldn't be enjoyable, and his words seemed to carry a hint of disdain. At that moment, my **Er Jie**'s younger brother-in-law, Duan Jun, asked me to accompany him to the garden for a walk. Zhao Huanxu then mentioned that he had acquired an exceptional horse and invited Duan Jun and Wu Cheng to see it. Duan Jun loves horses the most, so he went with him, and I came back."

Xu Nian'an frowned and said, "Why is this Zhao Huanxu so idle? He's everywhere. Whenever there are relatives of First Branch visiting, he has to get involved!"

Zhao Huanxi felt relieved that she didn't look down on him for speaking ill of Zhao Huanxu and added, "Exactly, he doesn't even study properly."

"In that case, when we have dinner at Mother's tonight, you can complain that your **Si Jiefu** and Zhao Huanxu are bullying you, and see how Mother reacts. If your **Si Jiefu** and your **Si Jie** have a good relationship, Mother will probably advise you not to fall out with them because of Zhao Huanxu. If Mother doesn't advise you and instead says that you're not studying well and can't save face for your sister in front of her husband, then there's probably something wrong between your **Si Jiejie** and **Si Jiefu**. We can make another plan then," Xu Nian'an suggested.

After thinking it over carefully, Zhao Huanxi nodded.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Yin Furen had been worried about Zhao Jiaxian all afternoon. During dinner, she noticed Zhao Huanxi's gloomy expression and asked, "What's wrong with you? Why the long face? Did you have a fight with Nian'an?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "Why would I have a fight with Nian'an? It's all because of **Si Jiefu**. It was bad enough that he is friendly with Zhao Huanxu, but today, in front of **Zufu**, he joined Zhao Huanxu in mocking me for not being good at poetry, making me lose face."

Yin Furen choked with anger, her face changing several times before she couldn't help but scold, "You still have the nerve to say that? If you were good at poetry, who could make you lose face? You're the only brother among your four sisters. When will you be able to stand firm and support them in their husband's families?"

"Mom, don't be angry. **San Jie** will try his best," Xu Nian'an quickly intervened, picking up a dish and handing it to Yin Furen to defuse the situation.

Yin Furen looked at her son, who had lowered his head under her scolding, and felt a pang of guilt. She didn't scold him further and turned to Xu Nian'an, saying, "Don't just idle around all day. Make sure to urge him on properly."

"I will, Mom. Getting angry harms the body. Please calm down," Xu Nian'an said gently.

After dinner, the young couple returned to Shenhui Courtyard. Yin Furen had something on her mind, so she didn't keep them.

"It seems you were right. Something might have happened between my **Si Jiejie** and **Si Jiefu**." After closing the door behind them, Zhao Huanxi said in a low voice to Xu Nian'an, "I'm sorry for getting you scolded by my mother. She's not in a good mood. Let me apologize on her behalf."

"I'm fine. Are you okay?" Xu Nian'an scrutinized Zhao Huanxi's expression. "I thought you would be upset for a while."

Zhao Huanxi smiled wryly. "This is nothing. I've heard worse. It's just that this time it wasn't my mother saying it."

Xu Nian'an fell silent. Having been married for a few days, she had already noticed that the young man in front of her didn't live as easily as she had imagined. While he certainly had his shortcomings, weren't the people around him also a major obstacle on his path? Especially Yin Furen, who worried about this and that while complaining about his incompetence. It was like holding a child all day and then complaining that the child wasn't running fast enough. If you didn't let go, how could the child run fast?

"What should we do next? My mother cares about reputation. If my **Si Jiejie** is really being mistreated in her husband's family, she would never let it slip in the household and become a laughingstock for the other branches," Zhao Huanxi said.

Xu Nian'an was surprised by Zhao Huanxi's thoughtfulness. After a moment of hesitation, she continued, "That's natural. But the maids and servants who followed your **Si Jiejie** to her husband's house must be aware of the situation. Are there any servants who are the relatives of those servants who accompanied your **Si Jiejie** in this residence?"

Zhao Huanxi pondered for a moment and said, "I remember the Nannies who accompanied my sisters to their husbands' houses were trusted and capable women under my mother's command. There should be relatives of theirs in the residence... Oh, I recall that Nanny Xian, who is with my **Si Jiejie**, has a son working in the orchard. Once, I overheard my mother instructing someone to send fruits to my **Si Jiejie** and specifically mentioned that Nanny Xian’s daughter-in-law should be the one sending them."

"That's easy. Tomorrow, send one of your most trustworthy young boy servants to the orchard to fetch some peaches from Nanny Xian’s son. While he's there, he can casually inquire about the situation of your **Si Jiejie**."

Zhao Huanxi looked at her. "Didn't you say that the people around me are loyal to my mother? Why do we have to rely on them for such a secretive matter? Aren't you afraid they might report back to my mother?"

"You can't treat everything the same. Nowadays, people aren't stupid. If they were, your mother wouldn't have sent them to serve you. Your mother strictly forbids you from painting, but you do it in secret. They know about it but wouldn't dare to hide it for you, because if it's discovered later, they'll be the first to bear the brunt. However, if they find out you're inquiring about your **Si Jiejie**, even if your mother knows, what can she do? It's just a brother caring for his sister. Why would they rush to tell your mother and risk offending you?" Xu Nian'an analyzed.

"That's right," Zhao Huanxi admired as he looked at Xu Nian'an, "You really think things through thoroughly."

"People with responsibilities on their shoulders, how could they not try their best to consider everything thoroughly? Your mother is the same. Let's leave this matter aside for now. There's another thing I'd like to discuss with you."

"What's the matter? Tell me," Zhao Huanxi said in a good mood.

Xu Nian'an looked at the young man in front of her, who seemed carefree and innocent. "Zhao Huanxi, go study at the Imperial Academy."
