---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 28"
snippet: "Now it's time to see Diaxue Guniang"
order: 28
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

After dinner, the young couple as usual took a walk in the small garden for a while, then Xu Nian'an went back to her room for a short nap.

Zhao Huanxi was originally reading 《Wangchuan Ji》. Seeing Xu Nian'an asleep, and the weather outside was warm and lazy, he also felt drowsy. He lay his head on the book and dozed off on the table for a while.
<div class="author-note">
《辋川集》- a collection of Tang poetry written by the two poets Wang Wei and Pei Di
</div>

When Xu Nian'an got out of bed, he had already been awake for a while, pretending to be seriously reading there, and even received a compliment from Xu Nian'an.

Half an hour later, not reading anymore, Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Huanxi, "Summer is coming soon, and I want to make a few fans to give away. Those little scenes you showed me today are perfect for fan surfaces. Can you help me draw them?"

"Of course." Zhao Huanxi was very willing.

As they were painting, Zhiyi arrived.

Zhao Huanxi covered the painting and let him in.

"**San Yé**, **Xiaode**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="小的 -lit. this little one"></sup> has inquired about it. After **Si Gu Nainai**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="姑奶奶 (gunainai) - The term used by the family (servants) of a married daughter to refer to her"></sup> became pregnant, **Si Gu Yé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="term of address for a man used by members of his wife's family"></sup> did indeed take in a new concubine. What's strange is that when that concubine entered the mansion, she was already pregnant. Nanny Xian's daughter-in-law said that according to Nanny Xian, that concubine's belly looks even bigger than **Si Gu Nainai**'s."

Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an looked at each other, and Zhao Huanxi asked anxiously, "Who is that concubine? Who nodded (to give permission) to enter the residence? How does she treat my **Si Jie**?"

Zhiyi answered, "Where is that concubine from? Nanny Xian's daughter-in-law doesn't know, only that she seemed to be living in the capital before entering the residence. Wu Family’s **Lao Zumu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="老(lao) means old, and 祖母(zumu) means paternal grandma. So this is Wu Cheng's paternal grandma"></sup> favours **Si Gu Yé**. Originally, since that concubine got pregnant outside (before entering their household), when the issues about wanting to bring her into the mansion was brought up, Wu Family’s **Lao Yé** (his dad) and wife also had doubts. But unable to resist when **Lao Zumu** had already nodded her head, they accepted her. What's most infuriating is that after she entered the mansion, relying on her pregnancy, and with **Si Gu Yé**'s favouritism, she tries to undermine **Si Gu Nainai** at every turn. In order to prevent **Si Gu Yé** from spending too much time in **Si Gu Nainai**'s courtyard, she employs all sorts of tactics. **Si Gu Nainai** was so angry that she cried."

"This is outrageous!" Zhao Huanxi was furious.

Xu Nian'an glanced at him, grabbed a handful of lychees from the fruit plate on the table, and handed them to Zhiyi, saying, "You've worked hard. Tomorrow, go to the orchard again and make sure to inquire clearly from Nanny Xian's daughter-in-law about where that concubine comes from, her surname, given name, her base in the capital, and where she stayed. Remind Nanny Xian's daughter-in-law to be careful and not let the Wu Family notice, nor let our Zhao Family notice. Once it's done, there will be a big reward from **San Yé**."

Zhiyi agreed and left.

"All these filthy and rotten things, taking advantage of my **Si Jiejie**'s good temper. If it were anyone else, anyone else..." Zhao Huanxi thought about his other sisters in his heart, but couldn't be sure who could handle this situation if they were in her place. He couldn't help but stop talking with a gloomy expression.

If even his mother couldn't handle this kind of thing well, how could he expect his sisters to be even more?

"When encountered frustrating situations, don't rush to get angry, because once you get angry, you'll only get angrier, and it's easy to get stuck in a rut." Xu Nian'an went over and pulled Zhao Huanxi, who was pacing anxiously in the room, to sit by the window, and asked him, "Regarding this matter, if we want to help your **Si Jie**, where do you think we should start?"

Zhao Huanxi settled down and thought carefully for a moment, looking at Xu Nian'an uncertainly as he said, "That concubine's pregnancy?"

Xu Nian'an nodded, "That's a major oversight. If she conceived outside, who can guarantee it's definitely your **Si Jiefu**’s seed?"

"But she's already entered the mansion, which proves that the Wu Family trusts her." 

"Compared to family reputation, what does the innocence of a concubine matter? Don't worry about this. I already have a solution. Go and continue your painting," Xu Nian'an said.
<br>

At the end of the Shen hour (3:00 pm to 5:00 pm), Xu Nian'an noticed the sun beginning to tilt towards the west. Seeing that Zhao Huanxi had not yet finished painting the fan surface, she said to him, "It's getting late. Let's put it away for now and finish painting it when you come back in the evening. It's time to go see Daixue **Guniang** now."

"Oh." Zhao Huanxi's movements to put away the painting were slow.

After hiding the painting in the painting cylinder, the two returned to the room. Xu Nian'an asked Mingli to bring flower scissors and a flower basket, and, taking Yisu along, she went to Zhilan Garden with Zhao Huanxi.

As they passed the alley beside Jiaxiang House, they happened to encounter Jinyin, who was coming out of Yin Furen's room.

"**San Yé**, **San Nainai**, where are *you* going? **Taitai** will call for dinner soon." She smiled and greeted them.

Xu Nian'an replied, "**San Yé** has been practicing calligraphy and reading in the study all day, and his eyes are tired. We're going to the Zhilan Garden for a walk, and we'll pick some flowers to put in a vase on the way back. We'll be back before dinner."

"Alright, then **Nubi** will go inform **Taitai**," Jinyin said before hurrying off.

At this time, preparations for dinner were underway, and there were few people strolling in the garden. In early summer, the flowers and trees were flourishing, and they casually picked a basketful. As they walked further, they gradually reached the side of the guest courtyard.

Yisu and Mingli went to the side paths to look into the distance and came back to report, "There's no one nearby."

"Both of you go find a place nearby to hide and keep watch. If someone comes, come back and report," Xu Nian'an instructed.

After the two left, Xu Nian'an whispered to Zhao Huanxi, "You can say anything, but you must not tell her that we are not a real couple, understand? Ask her to pay attention to the people around her not to spread the news of you going here today, or we'll be scolded again."

Zhao Huanxi nodded.

"You go ahead, I'll keep watch here for you," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi took a few steps towards the guest courtyard, then turned back and called softly to Xu Nian'an, who was keeping watch in the distance, "Don't be afraid, I'll be out soon."

Xu Nian'an was surprised for a moment, then smiled and waved, "I'm not afraid, you go ahead."

Zhao Huanxi turned around and walked towards the guest courtyard with a heavy heart, keeping his head down.

Outside of Furong Pavilion, the maid Meijiao was about to go and fetch dinner when she looked up and saw Zhao Huanxi. She turned around and ran back into the room, excitedly saying, "**Xiaojie**, **Xiaojie**, **San Gongzi** is here!"

Pang Daixue, who was sitting by the window and quietly shedding tears, was stunned for a moment before realizing what Meijiao was saying. She quickly wiped her eyes with a handkerchief, adjusted her hairpin, and straightened her clothes. By this time, Zhao Huanxi had already entered.

Meijiao poured tea for him, then voluntarily left, closing the door behind her to give them privacy.

"I thought you had forgotten about me. You still remember to come and see me," Pang Daixue said. She had delicate features with slender eyebrows and long, slender eyes, giving her a fragile and delicate appearance. As she looked at Zhao Huanxi, tears streamed down her face.

Seeing her just as pitiful as he remembered, Zhao Huanxi felt guilty. He hesitated behind the door for a moment before saying, "Pang **Guniang**, please don't cry."

Pang Daixue was startled, her tear-filled eyes looking at Zhao Huanxi in disbelief. "Pang **Guniang**? Did you just call me Pang **Guniang**?"

Zhao Huanxi felt awkward and at a loss. He bowed deeply to her and said, "I was rude before. Even if we get along well, I shouldn't have called you by your given name. I hope you can forgive me."

Pang Daixue's legs weakened, and she staggered back half a step. She braced herself against the table, one hand holding a handkerchief to her chest, and said in sorrow, "As **Biao Gu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="表姑 - father’s female cousin via female line. She's referring to Qin Shi, ZHX's eldest sister-in-law"></sup> predicted, you have someone new and have changed your heart. You don't want me anymore."

Zhao Huanxi was bewildered. "But I never intended to marry you. Initially, you said you were in a difficult situation and that only by marrying you could I help you out of it. I knew I was engaged, but since I had never met my fiancée and got along with you, I thought it would be better to marry you than a stranger I had never met. It would not only save you from danger but also give me someone to talk to. That's why I agreed. You know that we were never in that kind of relationship."

"I thought that since you agreed to marry me, you must have some feelings for me. Do you really have no feelings for me at all?" Pang Daixue stared at him with tearful eyes.

Zhao Huanxi looked guilty. "Pang **Guniang**, I've always only regarded you as a friend. If my words and actions have led you to misunderstand our relationship, I apologize."

"Do you like your newly wed wife so much?" Pang Daixue asked unwillingly.

Zhao Huanxi nodded honestly. "Marrying Nian'an made me realize that we don't really get along. I was willing to see you and talk to you simply because talking to you was easy, and your situation was pitiful. It felt like I was lying alone on thorns, enduring the pain, and then you appeared on the thorns beside me. I had company, even though it didn't really benefit me, at least I wasn't so lonely. Later, when I clashed with my family, shouting and struggling, it wasn't all for you. It was for myself, to express the frustration and loss of control I've felt for over a decade, the feeling of being arranged by others yet still not being acknowledged.

"After Nian'an came into my life, I realized what it truly means to get along with someone," Zhao Huanxi's gaze softened involuntarily when he mentioned Xu Nian'an. His handsome face, already radiant, seemed to glow even more. "Every time I talk to her, it makes me very happy. She makes me feel like I can become another person, the kind of person I used to admire from afar but never dared to imagine I could be. I don't know if I like her, but I do know that I really enjoy being with her."

Pang Daixue covered her face with a handkerchief and started crying bitterly.

"Pang **Guniang**, I cannot marry you, but I still consider you a friend and am willing to help you. Take some time to think about the path you want to take in the future. If there's anything I can do to assist you, I won't hesitate," Zhao Huanxi said.

"If you won't marry me, then I only have one way to go, and that's death! In that case, I might as well die now, to spare myself from being tormented by others!" Pang Daixue screamed in tears, then grabbed the scissors from the sewing basket on the table and pointed them towards her own chest.

Pang Daixue's face was full of tears. "Don't stop me, you can't help me... If I can't marry you, my situation will only be worse than death. Just take pity on me and let me die!"

"There's always a way when you're alive. If this path is blocked, think about whether there's another way. I refuse to believe that marrying me is your only way out!" Zhao Huanxi took the scissors from her and stepped back, breathing heavily.

Pang Daixue fell to the ground.

"You don't give up hope. I... I will find a solution for you. Wait for my message," Zhao Huanxi said, then left Furong Pavilion as if fleeing.

On the path outside the guesthouse, Xu Nian'an was pacing back and forth. She had just forgotten to remind Zhao Huanxi not to eat anything in Furong Pavilion. If the other party used some means to make a done deal out of an undecided one, that would be bad.

Alright, let’s wait just a little longer. If Zhao Huanxi didn't come out soon, she would go in.

With that thought in mind, she turned and looked towards the guesthouse, only to see Zhao Huanxi, with his handsome face pale, hurriedly coming out of the guesthouse, looking like he had just experienced a fright.

"What happened? What's going on?" Xu Nian'an caught up to him and asked.

"She almost used these scissors to commit suicide in front of me just now," Zhao Huanxi answered.

Xu Nian'an looked at the scissors in his hand, then at his face, and asked in a low voice, "Were you scared?"

Zhao Huanxi lowered his eyes, his eyelashes trembling slightly. Eventually, he nodded honestly.

"It's okay. When someone wants to commit suicide, it's all about that moment of passion to be brace and fearless of death. Since you stopped her this time, she shouldn't be able to gather enough courage to do it again in the short term. Calm down a bit, and let's go have dinner with Mother now. When we return to Shehhui Courtyard, we can discuss this matter further," Xu Nian'an said calmly.

The two of them, along with Yisu and Mingli, walked back together. Xu Nian'an told Zhao Huanxi some jokes from the market, and by the time they reached Jiaxiang House, he had calmed down quite a bit, without letting Yin Furen see anything amiss.

After dinner, when they returned to Shenhui Courtyard, Xiaowei and the others helped Zhao Huanxi wash his face and hands. Xu Nian'an dismissed them and closed the door before asking, "What exactly happened? How did she almost commit suicide in front of you?"
