---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 29"
snippet: "Bent down to lift her."
order: 29
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In the room, the dim light of the lamp illuminated a handsome young man sitting with his head lowered, wearing a look of being too embarrassed to say something.

"What's wrong? Is it hard to say?" Xu Nian'an tilted her head, observing his expression.

Zhao Huanxi rolled up his sleeves for a moment, finally mustering the courage to raise his head and say to Xu Nian'an, "I told her that I don't like her and cannot marry her." 

Xu Nian'an: "......"

Zhao Huanxi saw her silence, his face reddening again as he said, "I know what you're thinking, but I really don’t have a change of heart. My feelings for her have always been that of friendship, not... not romantic feelings."

"Then why did you say to me at the beginning..."

"At that time, you were a stranger to me, while she was a friend. Naturally, I leaned towards her."

Xu Nian'an was silent for a while and asked, "So, what are your plans now?"

"I want to help her, but I don't know how to help her. She said if she couldn't marry me, she would be more miserable than death, and she has been crying there." Zhao Huanxi said.

Xu Nian'an thought in her heart; She is just a tool in the hands of your **Da Sao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="eldest brother's wife"></sup>. If she loses her usefulness to you, I’m afraid she might only be used for some other purposes.

The two remained silent for a moment. Zhao Huanxi stood up and said, "How about I go plead with Mon, saying that I have broken ties with her and asking Mom to find her a good match?"

"She is your **Da Sao**'s relative. Why should Mom interfere in her marriage?" Xu Nian'an said.

"What should we do then? **Da Sao** must have treated her poorly, otherwise she wouldn't be crying all day. She has no one left in her family. If I don't help her, no one else can." Zhao Huanxi was both troubled and anxious.

Xu Nian'an looked at him inquisitively and asked, "You are so worried about her, is it just because she is your friend?"

"Even if she's not a friend, just a stranger in a desperate situation, why wouldn't I help if I can? It's not like I have to trade my life for hers. Besides, I promised to help her. Now, it seems like I'm someone who only cares about living well and doesn't care about whether my friends live or die." Zhao Huanxi said despondently.

Xu Nian'an was stunned for a moment before nodding slowly. "**Sanlang**, you are a good person."

Then she continued, "But there is still a barrier between Mom and Pang **Guniang**, and because of what happened before, she is disgusted with her. Normally, she will not care about her life or death. Unless you can do something that would make Mom willing to help her for your sake."

"What kind of thing?" Zhao Huanxi asked eagerly.

Xu Nian'an shook her head. "I don't have any ideas at the moment. Let's think about it together."

That night passed without further discussion. Early the next morning, Xu Nian'an went to pay respects to Yin Furen.

Yin Furen sat at the head of the table, slowly sipping her tea and removing the tea foam with the lid of the cup. Without looking up, she said, "Nian'an, go outside and keep an eye out. Let me know when it starts raining."

Hearing this, Qin **Shi**, Wei **Shi**, and others couldn't help but exchange glances.

Rain? Look at the sky, it's not going to rain for the next few days.

"Understood." Xu Nian'an bowed and left, standing in the corridor.

After paying their respects, Qin **Shi**, Wei **Shi**, and the others saw her still standing in the corridor. Since Yin Furen was watching from inside, they didn't dare to say anything to Xu Nian'an and left on their own.

After leaving Jiaxiang House, Wei **Shi** whispered to Qin **Shi**, "What's going on? Just a few days ago, everything seemed fine, but today, why suddenly discipline??"

Qin **Shi** understood that it was because of Zhao Huanxi's secret visit to Furong Pavilion yesterday, but she said, "What's there to be so surprised about? Anyone who's been a daughter-in-law has had to be disciplined at some point, right? When we first entered this household, didn't we have to go through the same?"

Thinking back to the past, Wei **Shi** smiled with a hint of sarcasm. "You're right. I didn't expect **Taitai** to be so impartial."

In Shenhui Courtyard, Zhao Huanxi estimated the time when Xu Nian'an would return from paying respects and asked Songyun to prepare breakfast. However, they waited and she still did not return.

He lost patience and called Xiaowei, saying, "Go to Jiaxiang House and see why **San Nainai** hasn't returned yet."

Xiaowei agreed and went. Shortly after, she returned in a panic, saying, "**San Yé, something's happened. **Taitai** has punished **San Nainai** to stand in the corridor."

Zhao Huanxi stood up abruptly and asked, "Why?"

"**Nubi** doesn't know, there were too many people in **Taitai**'s courtyard, **Nubi** didn't dare to ask too much. Just took a look and came back..." Before Xiaowei could finish her sentence, Zhao Huanxi rushed out.

He ran all the way to Jiaxiang House and indeed saw Xu Nian'an standing alone in the corridor. He hurried over and asked, "Dong **Jiejie**, what happened?"

Xu Nian'an shook her head and smiled, "It's nothing, **Sanlang**, don't worry. Go back and have your meal, don't delay your calligraphy practice."

Zhao Huanxi stamped his foot. "With you like this, how can I concentrate on my calligraphy? I'll ask Mom."

"Mom, why did *you* punish Nian'an to stand in the corridor?" Without waiting for Yin Furen to finish her current task (he did not wait for her permission), he entered the room and asked loudly.

Yin Furen sent away the steward's wife who came to reply and looked at Zhao Huanxi, asking instead of answering, "Punish her to stand in the corridor? Did she do something that deserves punishment?"

Zhao Huanxi seemed as if his throat had been squeezed, hesitating with a guilty heart. He continued, "She didn't do anything, I did. If you want to punish someone, punish me instead."

"Oh? Then she should be punished even more." Yin Furen picked up her tea cup and said leisurely.

“Why?" Zhao Huanxi became anxious.

"She promised me to look after you. If you do something you shouldn't, it's her negligence, so naturally she should be punished." Yin Furen said.

Zhao Huanxi felt that Yin Furen was being unreasonable. Subconsciously, he was about to resort to his old trick—crying, throwing a tantrum, and going on a hunger strike. But then he remembered what Xu Nian'an had told him: the more urgent the situation, the more he should think carefully before acting.

He thought for a moment and said, "Even if Nian'an didn't look after me well, and it's considered her negligence, she still advised me to practice calligraphy and read! I followed her advice and practiced calligraphy and read. If she is negligent, you punish her, but if she does good, you won't reward her?"

Yin Furen looked at her son in surprise. If it were in the past, he would have started making a scene long ago, and he would not have been as clear and logical in reasoning with her as he was at this moment.

She felt relieved in her heart, but said on the surface, "As the saying goes, rewards and punishments should be clear. If she deserves punishment, she will be punished. After the punishment is over, I will reward her."

Zhao Huanxi was dumbfounded, *the Guizhou donkey has exhausted its trick*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="黔驴技穷-(idiom)at one’s wit’s end"></sup>. He was about to resort to his old tricks when someone came in to report that **Guogong Yé** had summoned him to the Dunyi Hall.

Now both mother and son were flustered. "It must be that the news of your visit to that little witch yesterday has reached your **Zufu**'s ears. You tell me, why did you go see her if you had nothing to do?!" Yin Furen couldn't help but pinch Zhao Huanxi's arm.

Zhao Huanxi was also somewhat at a loss. He wasn't afraid of his mother, and his father never cared about him anyway, but he was afraid of his dignified **Zufu**.

"Mom, let me go with **Sanlang**." Xu Nian'an entered from outside the door and said.

Yin Furen nodded repeatedly. "Exactly. Nian'an, you accompany Huanxi. **Zufu** probably won't punish him in front of you."

"Mom, please rest assured, **Zufu** won't punish him." Xu Nian'an led Zhao Huanxi out and instructed Xiaowei and others who had followed Zhao Huanxi to come over, "Go quickly to **San Yé**'s study and bring the stack of characters he practiced yesterday."

After sending the maid to fetch the characters, Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi walked towards the Dunyi Hall. Xu Nian'an whispered to Zhao Huanxi, "Don't show any signs of panic. Just think of it as **Zufu** suddenly wanting to see you. You don't know why, so you're a bit confused, but also somewhat pleased to see him."

Zhao Huanxi tried to comply but struggled, wearing a mournful expression. "...... I can't do it."

"Then you can think, with someone as clever as me, surely I won't let you be punished by **Zufu**. Would that be better?" Xu Nian'an asked with a smile.

Zhao Huanxi glanced at her self-satisfied look and playful smile, unable to help but smile himself as he said, "En!"

In no time, they arrived at the Dunyi Hall. Xu Nian'an turned back and took the manuscript of Zhao Huanxi's calligraphy from Xiaowei's hands, asking the maids to wait outside the courtyard while she and Zhao Huanxi entered.

"**San Yé**, **San Nainai**, please wait a moment. Let me go in and announce." Xiangzhong greeted the two and then went into the Dunyi Hall’s small study.

Xu Nian'an stood outside the study and faintly heard **Guogong Yé**'s voice from inside, "...It's good that you have such aspirations. Study hard and write well in the coming months. On Ling **Daren**'s birthday, I will take you with me to the feast."

"Thank you, **Zufu**!" This was Zhao Huanxu's voice.

After Xiangzhong reported that Zhao Huanxi and his wife had arrived, **Guogong Yé** sent Zhao Huanxu away.

Zhao Huanxu seemed preoccupied. He nodded slightly at the couple before hurriedly leaving.

The couple entered the study and bowed to **Guogong Yé**.

Seeing Xu Nian'an also present, **Guogong Yé** did not immediately attack Zhao Huanxi. He instructed them to sit and noticed the large stack of paper in Xu Nian'an's hand, which seemed to have some writing on it. He asked, "What are you holding?"

"**Zufu**, these are the characters **Sanlang** practiced yesterday. Originally, Mother wanted to see them, so we brought them to her. Since *you* called for **Sanlang**, One thought why not show them to *you* as well." Xu Nian'an smiled as she handed the characters over.

**Guogong Yé** flipped through the papers and asked Zhao Huanxi, "Were these all written yesterday?"

Zhao Huanxi was about to nod but hesitated, then nodded halfway , saying, "That’s right."

"Alright, not bad. There's been improvement."

Seeing **Guogong Yé**'s affirmative words but furrowed brow, Xu Nian'an hurriedly continued, "**Zufu**, *you* don't know, **Sanlang** read books all afternoon yesterday. He said that if it weren't for his previous health issues that led him to leave the Imperial Academy, he would really want to continue his studies!"

Zhao Huanxi was startled and instinctively wanted to look at Xu Nian'an, but **Guogong Yé**'s gaze had already turned towards him. He had to forcibly restrain himself, gripping the hem of his brocade robe.

"Really?" **Guogong Yé** asked him somewhat sceptically.

Zhao Huanxi was strongly unwilling in his heart, but if he refused now, wouldn't it prove that Xu Nian'an was lying to **Zufu**? 

He could only grit his teeth and say, "Yes."

"How come you suddenly want to go back to the Imperial Academy?" **Guogong Yé** asked him.

Zhao Huanxi was troubled in his heart, but in this situation, he had no choice but to answer carefully, no matter how confused he was.

"I know I can't compare to Huanxu **Tangxiong** in studying, but even if I don't aim for officialdom, it is good to read more, broaden my knowledge, and make more friends. It's better than idling away my time at home."

**Guogong Yé** was very satisfied with his answer and nodded, saying, "It's great that you have this idea. Going to the Imperial Academy to study might not be easy for ordinary families, but for our family, what's the difficulty? Prepare yourself, and as for the rest, I will take care of it for you."

Zhao Huanxi stood up and bowed respectfully to **Guogong Yé**, saying, "Thank you, **Zufu**."

Once outside the Dunyi Hall, Zhao Huanxi dropped the facade and left Xu Nian'an behind, striding swiftly towards the direction of the Zhilan Garden.

Xu Nian'an sent the maidservant back and chased after him, asking, "Angry?" 

Zhao Huanxi ignored her. 

Despite being only sixteen years old, his tall stature and long legs allowed him to walk fast. Xu Nian'an, amidst the crowded mansion, had to run after him, disregarding her image, but she couldn't catch up in a short time.

"Ya!" 

Zhao Huanxi walked on, but then heard Xu Nian'an cry out behind him. He turned back and saw her fall to the ground. He quickly walked back to her, concerned, and asked, "What happened?"

Xu Nian'an picked up a stone by her foot and threw it into the grass by the road. She frowned, showing a painful expression, and held her ankle, saying, "I twisted my ankle."

"This... Let me take you back to find the doctor," Zhao Huanxi said, supporting her arm and helping her up, then bending down to lift her.

