---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 30"
snippet: "Can you even lift me"
order: 30
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Xu Nian'an stood on one foot on the ground, reached out to his chest, pushed him away slightly, and looked up at him, asking, "Aren't you mad at me?"

"You still dare to ask? You  actually forced me to go to the academy because you know I couldn’t expose your lies in front of **Zufu**. I wasted my trust on you! Hmph!" Zhao Huanxi became angry when he thought about this matter.

"I'm sorry. I was worried that **Zufu** would criticize you for going to see Pang **Guniang**, and I also thought about Pang **Guniang**'s current predicament, and how you wanted to help but not knowing where to start. It was at that moment that I suddenly thought, as long as you go to the academy, **Zufu** won't scold you, and Pang **Guniang**'s predicament can also be resolved. That's why I lied," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi was confused, "You said that Pang **Guniang**'s predicament can be resolved if I go to the academy, what do you mean?"

"Mom has been in low spirits lately because of the matter of your **Si Jie**. To seek her help for Pang **Guniang**, we need an opportunity, and your return to the Imperial Academy is that opportunity. While Mom is in a better mood, I can ask her to find a good place for Pang **Guniang**. You don't need to worry about this anymore; I will take care of it. Consider it as my compensation for forcing you to go to the academy in front of **Zufu**, okay?" Xu Nian'an asked him.

Zhao Huanxi listened to her scheming for his sake and her apology, and although he still felt uneasy about going to school, his anger had mostly dissipated. He nodded vaguely, then lowered his head to look at her feet, asking, "Does it hurt? Should we go find a doctor first?" As he spoke, he tried to lift her again.

Xu Nian'an pushed him away again and asked, "Can you even lift me?"

Zhao Huanxi's eyebrows raised slightly, "Are you underestimating me?"

"No, I'm worried that your arms will get sore from carrying me, affecting your calligraphy practice later. How about you carry me on your back? It's more stable that way." Xu Nian'an pulled his arm, turning him around. "Squat down."

Zhao Huanxi squatted awkwardly, and Xu Nian'an climbed onto his back. He had no experience carrying someone and almost stumbled forward, but he managed to catch himself in time. When he stood up, he almost stepped on his own robe.

Xu Nian'an chuckled and said, "Go to Mother's room. Then you go back first. I'll talk to Mother."

"Maybe... I should talk to her. After all, it's my own matter." Zhao Huanxi was concerned that Xu Nian'an pleading to their mother for Pang Daixue might upset her.

"You talking to her might make Mother think you're going to school just to help Pang **Guniang**. She won't be happy about that," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi thought it made sense and didn't insist. He said, "Since you've helped me with this, I want to help you with something too."

Xu Nian'an smiled. "Alright, I'll tell you when I think of something."

At Jiaxiang House, Nanny Su saw Zhao Huanxi carrying Xu Nian'an and panicked, quickly coming over to ask, "What happened? Why carry on back?"

Xu Nian'an said, "Nanny Su, don't worry. I accidentally twisted my foot, so **Sanlang** carried me back. Is Mother in?" 

Nanny Su sighed in relief and replied, "She's in the room."

The two entered the room, and Zhao Huanxi carefully placed Xu Nian'an on a chair. 

Upon hearing that Xu Nian'an had twisted her foot, Yin Furen immediately wanted to send for the *Pozi*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="middle-aged servant woman"></sup> who was good at treating sprains. Xu Nian'an stopped her, saying, "Mom, don't rush to call someone. I have good news to tell you."

Yin Furen looked at Zhao Huanxi and thought to herself that it was already good news if he hadn't been scolded. What other good news could there be?

Facing Yin Furen's inquiring gaze, Xu Nian'an didn't tease her and smiled, saying, "**Sanlang** wants to go study at the Imperial Academy, and **Zufu** has agreed to help arrange it."

Yin Furen was stunned for a moment, but then she became overjoyed and asked Zhao Huanxi, "Is it true?" 

Zhao Huanxi nodded, looking dejected.

Yin Furen was delighted and praised Zhao Huanxi profusely, also giving Xu Nian'an a praise. She then remembered that neither of them had eaten breakfast yet and quickly instructed the maidservants to bring the meal.

After the young couple finished their meal, the *Pozi* who treated sprains was waiting outside. 

Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Huanxi, "You go back and practice calligraphy. I'll get my foot treated here and then go back by myself."

Zhao Huanxi was worried. "Can you walk?"

"If she can't walk, Mom will send someone to carry your wife back for you. I won't keep her here indefinitely," Yin Furen scolded.

Zhao Huanxi blushed deeply and hurriedly excused himself to leave.

Yin Furen was about to call the *Pozi* in, but Xu Nian'an said, "Mom, there's no need to call her. I didn't actually twist my foot just now. It was all an act."

Yin Furen  was surprised, her eyes widened. She waved away the maidservants in the room and asked Xu Nian'an, "What's going on? Why did you pretend to be injured?"

"Earlier at Dunyi Hall, I admitted in front of **Zufu** that **Sanlang** wanted to go to the Imperial Academy to continue his study, but he was actually unwilling. After we left the hall, he was very angry and went off alone towards the Zhilan Garden. I couldn't catch up with him and was afraid he might do something out of line in his anger, which could be seen and reported to Zufu. So, I pretended to be injured to lure him back, then persuaded him and had him carry me back."

Yin Furen, with a slight frown, said somewhat disappointedly, "I thought so. How could he suddenly change his mind and say he wants to study? So, it actually is like this."

"Mother, don't worry. I already know the reason why **Sanlang** is unwilling to go to the Imperial Academy. I've helped him take the first step, and as long as we help him overcome his aversion to studying, he will naturally want to. But before that, there is another matter I need Mother’s help with," Xu Nian’an said.

"What's the matter?" Yin Furen asked.

"Yesterday, **Sanlang** went to see Pang **Guniang**. Pang **Guniang** almost commit suicide in front of him, which greatly distressed him when he returned."

Yin Furen was angry. "That little... It seems that this household really can't tolerate her! Qin **Shi** must send her away as soon as possible."

"No, Mother," Xu Nian'an objected.

Yin Furen looked at her suspiciously. "What do you mean?"

Xu Nian'an explained, "**Sanlang** is inherently kind-hearted. Regardless of whether Pang **Guniang** was manipulated or had ulterior motives while she was with him, she never truly harmed him, and he considered her a friend. When he resisted the marriage for her, it was only to help her out of a predicament. In the end, it naturally failed. If Pang **Guniang** were to have a tragic fate in the future, it would become a thorn in **Sanlang**'s heart. Every time he thinks of her, he will remember how useless he once was, promising to help a friend but failing to do so. So, I think instead of that, it would be better to fulfill his wish, find a good place for Pang **Guniang**, marry her off far away, and let the two part ways amicably. This way, **Sanlang** won't feel guilty for her tragic ending and won't think of her constantly."

Yin Furen's eyebrows furrowed even more. "Are you suggesting that I have to find her a good family and marry her off far away?"

"What nonsense!” Without waiting for Xu Nian'an's response, she turned her face away, the pearls by her ears shimmering subtly. Her well-maintained hands were folded and placed on her knees as she continued in a dignified tone, "She has harmed my son like this. Why should I bother about her future? Besides, she is Qin **Shi**'s Biao niece. What right do I have to interfere in her marriage? And let's say, even if I did interfere and went to great lengths to find her a good match, but in the end, the other party is not willing, would't I be the one who will be laughed at?!"

"Mother, if you intervene, it's for **Sanlang**'s sake, not for hers, right? **Sanlang** is worried about the beauty’s ill fate. Even if he goes to the Imperial Academy, he will be distracted by this matter. Do *you* really want to see that? Although Pang **Guniang** is **Da Sao**’s Biao niece, if she couldn't control Pang **Guniang**'s interactions with **Sanlang**, then she shouldn't be able to control Pang **Guniang**'s pursuit of her own future either. If everything else can be managed but only her relationship with **Sanlang** can't, wouldn't that seem deliberate? Once *you* have found a suitable match for Pang **Guniang**, we can call her over and discuss this matter with her while **Sanlang** is present. If she agrees, then it's settled. If she doesn't, then it's her own problem. Let **Sanlang** know that *you* have done *your* best. If she's unwilling, it's not his concern how she lives her life afterward."
<br>

After a while, Yin Furen stood in the corridor, watching Xu Nian'an leave.

Nanny Su came out from the side room and saw a worried look in Yin Furen's eyes. She approached and asked, "**Taitai**, **San Yé** is going to study at the Imperial Academy. Why are *you* so worried?"

Yin Furen said, "My daughter-in-law is courageous and resourceful, with a sharp mind. She's truly quite formidable. If she wholeheartedly supports my son, she'll be a great asset to him. But if she has any ulterior motives against my son, he won't stand a chance against her."

Nanny Su watched Xu Nian'an's figure disappear outside the courtyard and said, "Furen, *you* are overthinking. Xu **Shi** isn't a match for our family. She married into our family because she caught the eye of **Guogong Yé**. **San Yé** is young, handsome, and gentle. *You* are a reasonable and understanding mother-in-law. It's hard to find a husband and family like this. Unless **San Nainai** is tired of the good life, she wouldn't have any ulterior motives against **San Yé**."

"People's hearts, are the most difficult to fathom," Yin Furen sighed. It was just like when she first married Zhao Mingkun; how could she have imagined that one day they would grow to dislike each other?

After standing outside for a while, Yin Furen remembered that there were many things to handle. She turned back towards her room, saying as she walked, "Tell the servants that if there are any relevant purchases or tasks, prioritize the shops belonging to the Xu family. Also, instruct Lao Yang to inform the shopkeepers below that if they encounter any business dealings with **San Nainai**'s family, they should be more accommodating. Xu **Shi** is the pillar of the Xu family. Now that she has married into our family, the Xu family will thrive, and only then can she wholeheartedly assist my son."

Nanny Su flattered, saying, "Oh my, where else could we find a mother-in-law like *you*, who's like a Bodhisattva?" 

Yin Furen smiled and scolded, "Stop flattering me! As long as she is sincere to Xi *Ge*, the properties in my hands will one day be handed over to her. Sooner or later, what's the difference?"
<br>

In the study of Shenhui Courtyard, Zhao Huanxi watched as Xu Nian'an walked in, setting down his brush in surprise. "You can already walk this well? It doesn’t hurt at all?" 

Xu Nian'an felt both guilty and funny, saying, "Well, it wasn't that serious to begin with, and after some treatment, it doesn't hurt at all now."

Zhao Huanxi said with joy, "Mom still has some useful people under her command."

"That's natural." Xu Nian'an thought to herself. After all, as the head mistress of the Jing Guogong Residence, one couldn't have gotten to where they were without some skills.

"Mom has agreed to find a good family for Pang **Guniang**. Now you can rest assured," she said. 

Zhao Huanxi, recalling how his mother detested Pang Daixue yet now agreed to find her a good family, felt even more admiration for Xu Nian'an. "It must have taken quite a bit of effort on your part," he said apologetically.

"It's fine. Mother is just trying to resolve things for you. You know, she's willing to do anything for your sake," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi lowered his head in silence.

"This time, you went as far as to attend the Imperial Academy, which you detest, just to help Pang **Guniang**. You've done your utmost for her. In the future, you must not do such foolish things that worry Mother."

"That goes without saying. With you..." Zhao Huanxi paused, caught off guard by Xu Nian'an's clear gaze. He turned his face away slightly and continued, "I mean, with your advice and help, I naturally won't do anything foolish again."
