---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 31"
snippet: "The laughter in the newlyweds room continued until midnight."
order: 31
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

At night, Zhao Huanxi tossed and turned in bed like a pancake, unable to rest. 

Seeing this, Xu Nian'an had to speak up, "Are you still troubled by the matter of going to the Imperial Academy?" 

Zhao Huanxi’s movement paused, "...En."

Xu Nian'an turned over to face him. "Didn't I teach you how to deal with it last time?"

“But what you said would take time to investigate. I'm worried, what if someone comes to trouble me as soon as I start school?”

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment and nodded. “You're right. Let me teach you some more practical methods.“

She lifted the quilt and got out of bed, lit the lamp on the table, then sat down beside the table, beckoning to Zhao Huanxi, who had just risen from the bed.

Zhao Huanxi also got out of bed and sat down across from her as she indicated. 

Xu Nian'an looked at the beautiful young man with long hair cascading like a waterfall under the lamp, his face like beautiful jade and his eyes like cold stars. She cleared her throat and said, “First of all, we need to be clear about one thing. **Zufu**, Jing Guogong, is the Left Commander of the Central Army Commander's Office, a high-ranking minister of the country, a trusted minister of the Emperor. As his eldest legitimate grandson, if a prince bullies you, **Zufu** has the ability to speak up for you. So, with status lower than a prince, they are just your peers, you should not be afraid of anyone, do you agree with this?"
<div class="author-note">
There are Five Armies Commander's Offices, which include the Front, Rear, Left, Right, and Central Army Commander's Offices (中军都督府 Zhong Jun Dūdū Fu). <br>
Each office had a Left (左都督 Zuo Dūdū) and Right Commander (右都督 You Dūdū), holding the rank of the First Class Official. 
</div>

After thinking for a long time, Zhao Huanxi hesitated and nodded.

"Since you are not afraid of anyone, you should also not fear being bullied by anyone. The reason you are troubled by this is because you feel that those who would bully you are shameless, and you are unable to be as shameless as them, so you cannot retaliate in the same way."

Zhao Huanxi nodded repeatedly, like a chick pecking at grains.

"Have you ever thought about why they would bully you even though they know your identity?" Xu Nian'an asked.

Zhao Huanxi looked at her, opened his mouth as if to speak, then lowered his eyelids.

"Because you're handsome?" Xu Nian'an pointed to her own nose. "If that’s the case, when **Si Shenshen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of father's 4th younger brother"></sup> made things difficult for me on our second day of marriage, it must be because she thinks that I’m as beautiful as a fairy."

Zhao Huanxi couldn't help but smile at her playful tone and looked at her closely. Whether **Si Shenshen** thought she was as beautiful as a fairy, he didn't know. But in his eyes, she truly was as beautiful as a fairy.

Thinking of this, he blushed slightly, turned his face aside to look for tea. It was hot anyway, so he wasn't afraid of drinking cold tea.

"In reality, who would bully someone just because they're good-looking? It's not like they're all worthless scoundrels. The reason **Si Shenshen** bullies me is simply because I'm a newcomer to the family, and my family background is not prestigious. She thinks I'm an easy target. As for you, your good looks may have made you slightly lacking in masculinity. Despite your high birth, you're not **Zufu**'s favourite grandson, nor are you Father's favourite son. Even if Father values you, it's useless. To speak disrespectfully, Father has no real power. If you show any signs of being easy to bully, who else would they bully? Moreover, because of your high birth, bullying you gives them a greater sense of satisfaction than bullying those commoners who have no one to rely on!"

Zhao Huanxi thought about it. There was nothing he could do to change what she said at the moment, so he felt even more helpless. "What should I do?"

"It's simple. Just let them know that you're not easy to bully."

"How can I let them know I'm not easy to bully? Arguing with them is not appropriate, and I'm not good at it. As for fighting..." Zhao Huanxi looked uneasy. He was even less capable of that.

"If we're being serious, there are many ways to handle this, but you won't be able to learn them all at once. Just remember the basics for now. If they're just talking, ignore them, treat it like a dog barking, and pretend you didn't hear it. Once you understand them better, then you can use the methods I taught you before. If they block your way or use other means to harass you, go find the supervisor. If the supervisor refuses to help, ask him if he needs you to go home and ask **Zufu** to request the Emperor to send more people to manage the Imperial Academy.

"If they dare to lay hands on you, don't hesitate to fight back. But don't use your hands. A scholar's hands are precious. If you see the situation isn't right, retreat to where there are objects you can use as weapons. When they make a move, grab whatever you can and throw it. With your status, as long as they're not completely brainless, they won't dare to use excessive force against you. You don't need to worry about anything. Just remember to protect yourself. If something really happens, I'll go to **Zufu** for you. After all, you didn't start the fight. We're the ones in the right."

Listening to Xu Nian'an's words, Zhao Huanxi clenched and unclenched his fists, nodding in the end.

"Now I'll teach you a few expressions that will make you look less easy to bully," Xu Nian'an said, demonstrating expressions such as disdain, squinting, sneering, and mocking.

Zhao Huanxi couldn't help but laugh.

"Aiya you stop laughing. I'm teaching you seriously. Hurry up and learn." Xu Nian'an hitted him, feeling a bit embarrassed.

Zhao Huanxi tried to hold back his laughter and earnestly tried to imitate the expressions. However, every time he didn't quite get it right, he couldn't help but chuckle.

"Laughing, laughing, what's so funny? Have you caught the laughing sickness?"

"Hahaha!"

"Are you still learning or not? If not, I'm going to bed!"

"Haha, I'm learning, hehehe, learning!"

"Staring at people with a smile in your eyes, who would be afraid of you? Aiya, that's not how you do it. Is your eye twitching?"

"Hahahahahaha!"

The laughter in the newlywed room continued until midnight.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The next morning, Xu Nian'an had just gotten up when Zhao Huanxi also got up.

Xu Nian'an was puzzled: "Why are you up so early?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I'll be going to school in a few days anyway, so I can't sleep in. I might as well get used to it early." He had been troubled last night, but after listening to Xu Nian'an's words and laughing for a while, he slept well, without even dreaming. He woke up feeling refreshed and clear-headed.

After accompanying Xu Nian'an to Yin Furen's place to pay respects, Zhao Huanxi returned to Shenhui Courtyard for breakfast. He then conscientiously went to the study to practice calligraphy. However, Xu Nian'an suggested, "You'll be going to the Imperial Academy in a few days, and you won't have much time at home. Why not help me with some fan paintings for the next few days?"

Zhao Huanxi was very willing.

Xu Nian'an added, "We could go to the small garden to paint. Maybe you'll discover some new scenery."

While Zhao Huanxi was eager to paint in the small garden, he was also afraid that Yin Furen would find out. "What if someone sees us and it gets back to my mother..."

"You're about to go study at the Imperial Academy. How could Mom make things difficult for you over a few paintings? What if you get angry and refuse to go?" Xu Nian'an smiled mischievously, tugging at his sleeve. "Let's go."

So the young couple happily went to the small garden to paint.

In the Guanyu Pavilion, with Xu Nian'an's assistance, Zhao Huanxi mixed the paint. He took a deep breath, feeling the fragrant scent of the plants and the vibrant colours around him. Birds perched on branches, and cats walked along the eaves.

He felt that there was no happier moment in his life than this.

Xu Nian'an watched him paint. At this moment, he was free of worries, in a good mood, and his painting state was much better than when he painted the Zhilan Hall last time. He fully displayed his talent and artistic spirit, truly showing a fluent and spirited brushstroke.

After finishing a painting of a pomegranate tree by a moonlit window, he set down his brush and asked Xu Nian'an how she thought it turned out.

Xu Nian'an sighed, "You've painted so beautifully. What kind of embroiderer could capture it like this?"

Zhao Huanxi laughed brightly, "Isn't that easy? You tell me how to embroider it, and I'll do it for you."

"No need, I'm going to keep these paintings carefully. As for embroidering, if it can capture even a fraction of the charm of your paintings, it will be very beautiful," Xu Nian'an smiled.

As the two were talking, Zhiyi hurried over in a fluster.

Seeing his appearance, Xu Nian'an knew something was wrong and said, "Don't panic, catch your breath first, then tell us slowly."

Zhiyi really listened to Xu Nian'an's words, and after catching his breath, he said, "**San Yé**, **San Nainai**, something has happened. Nanny Xian's daughter-in-law, under the guise of delivering melons, went to the Wu Residence to inquire about the concubine. However, she heard that last night, **Si Gu Nainai** almost had a miscarriage because of that concubine. Fortunately, the doctor arrived in time, and the child was saved. Nanny Xian has now returned home to complain to **Da Taitai**."

"This is outrageous!" Zhao Jiaxian, who is closest in age to Zhao Huanxi and has been playing together in Yin Furen's courtyard since childhood, has a deep bond with him. When he heard that Zhao Jiaxian almost had a miscarriage caused by a concubine, Zhao Huanxi immediately put down his brush and was about to go find his mother.

Xu Nian'an stopped him and instructed Zhiyi, "You've worked hard. Go rest for a while."

After Zhiyi left, Xu Nian'an asked Zhao Huanxi, "What were you going to do?"

"I will go find my mother and clarify the situation. If the Wu family has really gone too far, I'll bring my **Si Jie** back," Zhao Huanxi said.

"**Si Jiejie**'s parents are both alive. If she's wronged, how can it be your place, a younger brother who is not yet of age, to rush to her defence?"

"But didn't you ask me to help **Si Jiejie** before?" Zhao Huanxi was puzzled.

"We could help her discreetly when it wasn't public knowledge. But now that it's out in the open, it's not appropriate for you to intervene. Mother might not even want you to get involved. If you're not in the mood to paint, go back to your room for now. I'll go see Mother," Xu Nian'an said.

"Oh, if there are any updates, come back and tell me quickly," Zhao Huanxi instructed.

Xu Nian'an smiled faintly, "Got it."
<br>

At Jiaxiang House, after hearing Nanny Xian's report, Yin Furen was so angry that she smashed a teacup.

"This is absurd! The servant girl of a concubine dares to scatter soybeans on the path of the main wife who is leaving. She merely says the bag was leaking and goes unpunished? What's going on? Are the men of the Wu family all going to die out? Are they going to live off the *shu* child in a concubine's belly?"

Nanny Xian wiped away her tears and said, "Who said it wasn't? But Wu Family’s **Lao Taitai** personally came to find **Si Guniang** on behalf of **Gu Yé** to plead, and when **Si Guniang** saw this, no matter how aggrieved she was, she couldn't say a word against it."

Yin Furen sneered, "The Wu Residence values a lowly concubine more than my daughter. But my daughter is not someone they can mistreat! Nanny Su, instruct the servants to prepare a carriage. I'll go and bring back Xian **Jie’er**!" 

Qianhe said at the door, "**Taitai**, **San Nainai** is here."

Yin Furen said, "I'm busy here. Tell her if it's not urgent, come back in the afternoon."

Qianhe replied, "**San Nainai** said she came for **Si Gu Nainai**'s matter."

Yin Furen frowned and murmured, "How did she find out?" She looked up at Nanny Xian, "Did you spread this matter?"

Nanny Xian was startled and hurriedly said, "**Laonu** did not say a word to anyone outside..." She paused, then exclaimed in surprise and suspicion, "This morning, my daughter-in-law came to deliver melons to **Si Gu Nainai**. I thought she was sent by **Taitai**, so I complained to her out of anger. Could it be that she was actually sent by **San Nainai**?"

Yin Furen felt a throbbing pain in her temples and instructed Qianhe, "Ask her to come in."
