---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 34"
snippet: "Didn't you say you're not shy? Why is your face so red?"
order: 34
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Xu Nian'an hurriedly raised her hand to support her and said, "**Si Jiejie**, please don't say that. Even after getting married, one is still Mother's daughter, and **Sanlang**'s older sister. How could we neglect this matter?"

This sentence stirred up Zhao Jiaxian's worries again. The days of being a daughter-in-law were truly not as good as being a **Guniang** at home. She was about to shed tears when she heard Xu Nian'an say, "**Si Jiejie**, you don't know, as soon as **Sanlang** heard that you were being bullied, he jumped up on the spot. If I hadn't stopped him, I'm afraid it wouldn't be me sitting here right now, but him."

Zhao Jiaxian broke into a smile through her tears, and the urge to cry was diluted. Seeing the maid serving tea to Xu Nian'an, she instructed them to leave and said to Nanny Xian, "Nanny has been running around, must be tired. Go and rest. I will have a talk with **Di Mei**."

After everyone had left the room, Zhao Jiaxian asked Xu Nian'an, "How is everything at home? And my mother... is she alright?" Just as Wu Furen initially couldn't understand why Yin Furen sent her newly married daughter-in-law over, Zhao Jiaxian couldn't understand it either. Her first reaction was that something had happened at home, and her mother was unable to leave, so she had to send her, the younger sister-in-law, over.

Xu Nian'an glanced at the window, moved from the embroidered stool to the edge of Zhao Jiaxian's bed, took her hand, and said, "**Si Jiejie**, please rest assured, there is nothing wrong at home, and Mom is doing well. The reason I came this time is that Mom has more important matters to attend to. **Si Jiejie**, don't worry too much. At most, endure for another month, and that side will no longer be an eyesore to you."

Zhao Jiaxian was somewhat startled, her eyes widened in hesitation as she said, "Mom wouldn't be wanting to..."

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "What kind of person Mom is, **Si Jiejie** still not know? We come from an upright and clean family, not involved in any bloody affairs. As for what others bring upon themselves, it's not our concern. You just need to take care of your own health and instruct the servants to look after Ying **Jie’er** (her daughter) properly. This way, Mom can be at ease."

Zhao Jiaxian nodded subconsciously, her eyes reddening again. "It's all because I'm unfilial. I can't even handle such a small matter by myself, and I have to rely on my maiden family to help me plan."

Xu Nian'an said, "We've all left our parents' homes, so I understand **Si Jiejie**’s feelings. After getting married, which daughter doesn't want her parents to know she's doing well in her husband's home? Besides, Mother is in charge of managing the Guogong Residence, and she's busy all the time. Naturally, you wouldn't want to bother her." 

Zhao Jiaxian nodded repeatedly.

Xu Nian'an changed the subject, "But I'm not busy. On our wedding night, **Sanlang** commented that I looked very calculating and scheming. If **Si Jeijie** has any issues in the future, just let Nanny Xian send someone to inform me. *Three mediocre cobblers with their wits combined can surpass Zhuge Liang*. You, me, and Nanny Xian, the three of us together are surely better than three mediocre cobblers, right?"
<div class="author-note">
Zhuge Liang was a statesman, strategist, and engineer who lived through the end of the Eastern Han dynasty (c. 184–220) and the early Three Kingdoms period (220–280). He is known as the most accomplished strategist of his era.<br>
三个臭皮匠赛过诸葛亮 is an idiom. It means that three ordinary people, if they can work together with unity and brainstorming, can come up with strategies more thoughtful than even Zhuge Liang's.
</div>

Zhao Jiaxian couldn't help but smile, covering her mouth with a handkerchief. She scolded, "**San Di Mei** is really... **Di Mei**, don't take him seriously. When he gets stubborn, he's used to talking nonsense. Just treat it as... child's talk." 

The phrase "child's talk" made them both laugh.

After they laughed, Xu Nian'an said, "There's another piece of good news to tell you. **Sanlang** has agreed to go to the Imperial Academy to study. **Zufu** is arranging this matter for him, and it's estimated that he will start in a few days."

Zhao Jiaxian was pleasantly surprised, "Really? In the past, no matter what methods Mother used, he refused to go. Why the sudden change..." She stopped halfway through her sentence, realizing the reason. Naturally, it was because of the person in front of her.

"**Di Mei**, you really have your own way. It seems like there's no need for me and Nanny Xian anymore. You alone can match up to a Zhuge Liang."

As the two were talking, Nanny Xian called from outside and entered excitedly, saying, "Furen has taken people and gone to Meixiang Courtyard!"

Zhao Jiaxian looked at Xu Nian'an, and Xu Nian'an said, "It's just that Wu Residence had the maid who was 'careless' dealt with. With this lesson, that concubine should behave herself for a while, ensuring that she won't cause any trouble again before things are settled."

Nanny Xian was no stranger either. After a pause, Xu Nian'an said in front of her to Zhao Jiaxian, "Although I haven't been in the mansion for long, I can see that the Fifth Branch is specifically causing trouble for us First Branch. **Si Jiefu** seems to be on good terms with Huanxu **Tangxiong** from the Fifth Branch. While **Si Jiefu** may truly appreciate his literary talent, it may not be the same for Huanxu **Tangxiong**. Although it's not yet clear, **Si Jiefu**'s choice of concubine is indeed suspicious, and it's hard to say it wasn't orchestrated by someone. **Si Jiejie**, you can ignore other matters, but you must discuss this with your mother-in-law. Don't tell this directly to **Si Jiefu**, only to your mother-in-law."

Zhao Jiaxian hadn't thought about this at all. When Xu Nian'an brought it up, she was both surprised and suspicious, nodding in agreement.

After finishing her business and giving the necessary instructions, Xu Nian'an got up to take her leave. 

Zhao Jiaxian still had Nanny Xian escort her out. Nanny Xian left but returned shortly after.

"Why did you come back so soon?" Zhao Jiaxian asked.

Nanny Xian replied, "When I was escorting **San Nainai** out, I happened to meet Furen, so **San Nainai** asked me to come back. They left together."

"Everything has been resolved so quickly?" Zhao Jiaxian asked, surprised.

Xian Mama sneered, "With **Gu Yé** not at home and **Lao Taitai** not intervening, the matriach of the house naturally can deal with a maid of her son’s concubine as she pleases. Isn’t it like catching a crab in a basket— very easy to handle. That cheap servant girl was given twenty strokes and is now tied up, waiting to be sold off! As for that woman surnamed Zheng, pretending to have a stomachache, Furen also didn't even bother with her!"

Zhao Jiaxian was relieved to hear that no lives were lost.

Nanny Xian, at this point, couldn't help but sigh and say, "**Lao Pozi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this middle-aged woman (referring to herself)"></sup> will go back and report to **Taitai**. **Taitai** originally intended to come in person, but **San Nainai** took the initiative to stop **Taitai**. I felt a bit uneasy about it at the time, but didn't expect her to be so capable. She came over with a smile and handled the matter without harming the relationship between the two families, focusing her efforts on that despicable person. Even when **Lao Taitai** was using **Da Laoyé** (Yin Furen's husband) as comparison, she smoothly deflected it and even gained an advantage out of it. I used to think that **Guogong Yé** had completely given up on the First Branch by arranging this marriage for **San Yé**, but now it seems that it might be just the opposite."

Zhao Jiaxian, after reflecting for a moment, curiously asked, "How did **Di Mei** manage to handle the situation with a smile? Nanny, can you explain to me?"

Nanny Xian then explained the details to Zhao Jiaxian.

After listening, Zhao Jiaxian remained silent for a long time. Eventually, she sighed and said, "I'm actually a year older than her. But when it comes to tactics and quick thinking, I'm not even half as good as her."

Nanny Xian, seeing her disheartened, quickly comforted her, saying, "In this rainy days, it's the one without an umbrella who runs faster, but that's not how we should compare ourselves."

Zhao Jiaxian was silent for a moment, then she cheered up again and said to Nanny Xian, "Nanny, find a few clever and reliable maids and servants. Have them spread the word discreetly about Zhao Shuxian from the Fifth Branch. On the second day after my **Di Mei**'s marriage, she showed disrespect towards my **Di Mei** and even complained to**Zumu**, resulting in my **Di Mei** being punished to copy the 'Lessons For Women' in the ancestral hall. Don't do it intentionally; just mention it casually in conversation."

Now it was Nanny Xian's turn to be surprised. "**Guniang**, are you..."

"**Di Mei**’s father has passed away for several years, her mother is frail, and her younger siblings are all unmarried. She has no one to turn to when she's wronged. Now that she's helping me like this, I naturally want to help her too. She's right, over these years, the Fifth Branch has caused us a lot of trouble. Since that's the case, we don't need to keep yielding.” She lifted her head, her face bursting with unprecedented radiance. “My brother is willing to progress, my **Di Mei** is capable, and **Zufu** hasn't given up on us Firth Branch. What do I have to fear? Life is long, and I must live it well!" 

Nanny Xian happily said, "It's best that Guniang has come to this realization!"
<br>

In the front courtyard of the Wu Residence, Wu Furen personally escorted Xu Nian'an to the gate, holding her hand and saying, "Good child, your mother-in-law only ordered to punish a maid. That shows her kindness. Go back and tell her that once Zheng **Shi** gives birth to the child, everything will be done according to the rules."

Following the rules means that once the child is born, it will have no connection to the concubine, and it will recognize the legal wife as its mother, being raised by her.

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "Furen, please rest assured. With a parent like you who understands righteousness so well, the bond between our two families will surely remain strong and enduring."

Wu Furen smiled and nodded, not saying anything more.

As they reached the gate, Wu Furen looked up and saw a gathering of people on both sides of the lane outside their house. There were men and women, mostly women, peeking and looking in their direction. Suspicious, she asked the gatekeeper, "What's going on?"

The gatekeeper replied, "Replying to Furen, Zhao **Gongzi** was standing in front of the gate just now."

"Zhao **Gongzi**?" Wu Furen hadn't reacted yet when Zhao Huanxi, who had stopped nearby, got off the carriage.

The crowd at the ends of the lanes became instantly excited. 

Xu Nian'an, looked at Zhao Huanxi, whose black hair and fair skin were highlighted by the sunlight, his features as striking as if they were painted: "......"

Zhao Huanxi glanced at Xu Nian'an, seeing that she was unharmed and her expression did not suggest she had been mistreated. He then approached and bowed to Wu Furen, standing below the steps.

Wu Furen came to her senses and couldn't help but sigh inwardly. Her in-law's legitimate son, Zhao Huanxi, was such a striking figure that no matter how many times she saw him, she couldn't help but be impressed by his appearance. It was fortunate that he was a man; if he were a woman, he might have become a demon concubine who would bring disaster to the country and the people.

Xu Nian'an asked Zhao Huanxi, "Why did you come?"

"I went to buy a brush and happened to come to pick you up," he replied.

Xu Nian'an's face reddened a bit as she bid Wu Furen farewell and got into the carriage with him. 

When they were in the carriage, Zhao Huanxi leaned in and looked at her, asking in confusion, "Didn't you say you're not shy? Why is your face so red?"

Xu Nian'an poked his forehead with her finger and pushed his face away, saying, "It's all because of you. Couldn't you come up with a better excuse than going to buy a brush? The dignified eldest grandson of Jing **Guogong**, needing to personally go to the market to buy a brush? Who are you trying to fool?"

Zhao Huanxi rubbed his forehead and grumbled discontentedly, "I was just worried about you!"

Xu Nian'an looked at his aggrieved expression and couldn't stay mad at him.

Zhao Huanxi asked Xu Nian'an about Zhao Jiaxian's situation, and she told him everything, concluding, "We just need to wait for Mother to find out the whole story, and then this matter will be resolved."

Zhao Huanxi relaxed and noticed a brocade box by her side. He asked, "What's inside?"

Xu Nian'an opened the box and took out an embroidered orchid-patterned folding fan, saying to Zhao Huanxi, "This is a gift from **Si Jiejie** to me. There's one for me, one for Mother, but none for you!"

Hearing this, Zhao Huanxi raised his hand to snatch it, grabbing Xu Nian'an's hand that was holding the fan handle.
