---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 37"
snippet: "The young couple's post-disaster reconstruction."
order: 37
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In Jiaxiang House, Yin Furen sat in front of the bed, looking at her son's pale and unconscious face, wishing that damn Zhao Mingkun would just drop dead right now.

Dying now really doesn't delay anything. Huanxi hasn't become an official yet, so there's no need for *mourning period*. At most, he can't have children for three years, but that's not a big deal. Three years later, Huanxi will only be nineteen, and Nian'an will be twenty-one, which is the perfect time for them to have children.
<div class="author-note">
丁忧 (Ding you) - mourning period for parents death. During the mourning period, an official is obliged to resign their posts and return to their home. Banqueting, marriage, official activities and participation in the imperial examinations are all proscribed. The length of the mourning period is nominally three years.
</div>

She's not like them in the Fifth Branch, lamenting the loss of their man day and night. She's actually wishing she were a widow right now. After all, having his father alive is as good as dead for Huanxi, so it would be better if he were dead. At least dead people won't kick others.

Unfortunately, that damn thing is in good health, he won't die for any time soon.

Yin Furen sighed disappointedly, then suddenly noticed that Zhao Huanxi was restlessly tossing and turning on the pillow. His long eyelashes trembled slightly as he woke up.

As soon as he woke up, he looked startled. He sat up abruptly, looked around, and didn't see Xu Nian'an. He asked anxiously, "Where is Dong **Jiejie**?"

Yin Furen: "...Dong **Jiejie**?"

Zhao Huanxi was taken aback, his face slightly red. He got out of bed, saying, "Where did Nian'an go?"

Yin Furen held him back and said, "She's at Shenhui Courtyard. The doctor has already seen her, and said she's fine. Nanny Su is there looking after her. You just lie down and rest."

"She took a kick meant for me from Father, how can she be fine? I need to go see her." Zhao Huanxi quickly put on his shoes, and Yin Furen couldn't stop him. She hurriedly asked Qianhe to bring his outer robe for him to wear.

The mother and son hurried to Shenhui Courtyard. Nanny Su was talking to Xu Nian'an by the bed. When she saw Zhao Huanxi rushing over, she stepped aside.

"Nian'an, how are you?" Zhao Huanxi felt awkward calling her Dong **Jiejie** in front of others. Seeing her sitting up in bed, he felt slightly relieved.

Xu Nian'an first greeted Yin Furen and then replied to him, "I'm fine. It's just a bruise. Mother had someone massage it with medicated oil earlier, so it's not very painful now. How about you?"

Zhao Huanxi said, "I'm fine too." He just choked on some water. He had vomited everything before he passed out. After sleeping for a while, his nasal cavity no longer hurt, and he didn't feel nauseous anymore.

"Although it's not serious, after all, you've been through a shock. You should still drink some calming and dispelling medicine. Nian'an, you should take good care of yourself this month. You don't have to come and greet me in the morning. Anyway, the two neighboring courtyards (Zhao Huanchao and Zhao Huanyang's courtyard) are under confinement for a month, so there's no need for them to come and greet me." Yin Furen said.

Xu Nian'an understood that Yin was Furen expressing her concern for her, so she didn't refuse her kindness and quietly agreed.

Yin Furen had someone fetch the medicinal soup she had instructed to stew early in the morning and brought it over for the two of them to eat. She also instructed the maids in Shenhui Courtyard to be more alert and then left with Nanny Su.

After leaving Shenhui Courtyard, Yin Furen remembered the scene where her son and daughter-in-law had just assured each other of their safety. She felt both distressed and indignant. She said to Nanny Su, "Although the kick later was taken for Xi **Ge**, the slap earlier was real. For a father-in-law to hit his daughter-in-law, it's truly unheard of. This is still a noble family after all. Who would believe it if it were said?"

At this point, she paused and looked at Nanny Su seriously, saying, "I was too anxious and confused. This matter absolutely cannot be spread. We can't afford to lose face! Immediately instruct everyone to keep their mouths shut. If anyone dares to leak a word, they will be beaten to death!"

However, by this time, it was already too late to say that it couldn't be spread; everyone in the entire residence knew about it.

However, while everyone knew, no one cared enough to ridiculed the First Branch. The information revealed in this farce seemed far more significant to some people than what was apparent on the surface.

After dinner, **Wu Taitai** Jin **Shi** went to the Fourth Branch's courtyard. At the courtyard gate, she ran into **Si Taitai** Liu **Shi**. **Si Taitai** smiled and said, "I was just thinking of looking for you, and here you are."

The two of them went to **Si Taitai**'s room, dismissed the maids, and began to speak in whispers.

"Du **Yiniang** was kicked out with one foot (in a disgraceful manner), and Zhao Huanzhao and Zhao Huanyang were ordered by **Lao Yézi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote=""老爷子" is a respectful term used to refer to an elderly man or an elderly patriarch in a family."></sup> to be confined to their rooms for a month. The most crucial point is that **Lao Yézi**;has confined these two courtyards on the grounds of unfilial conduct. If this were to spread, it would affect both of their careers. **Lao Yézi**'s bias this time is too obvious." **Si Taitai** whispered.

**Wu Taitai** sighed, "Who can say otherwise? I just don't know if **Lao Yézi**'s actions are biased towards Zhao Huanxi or towards Xu **Shi**."

**Si Taitai** understood what she was thinking. If it's Zhao Huanxi, then the title and position would be out of reach for the Fifth Branch, considering that Zhao Huanxi still held the advantage as the eldest legitimate grandson.

"Then it must be for Xu **Shi**. She is the daughter of **Lao Yézi**'s old friend, and he personally arranged for her to be married here. How could he stand by and watch her being bullied? So, whether it was the time when **Lao Taitai** punished her for copying the 'Lessons for Women' or this time, he is standing up for Xu **Shi**. Zhao Huanxi is still as useless as ever. **Lao Yézi** used to ignore him, so why would he suddenly favor him now?" she said.

"Zhao Huanxi may not have been useless all along. I heard that **Lao Yézi** has already used his connections to get him back to the Imperial Academy for further studies," **Wu Taitai**;said worriedly.

"That's also because Xu **Shi** instigated it in front of **Lao Yézi**. Now that **Da Taitai** is in charge of the household and Xu **Shi** is favoured by **Lao Yézi**, with no one above to control her, the relationship between the First Branch and their daughter-in-law is likely to become tense. In my opinion, we should go and invite **Lao Taitai** out of the Buddha hall. In the first two years after **Wu Yé**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th master; Wu Taitai's late husband"></sup> death, **Lao Yézi** might have felt guilty to **Lao Taitai**, so he always took care of the Fifth Branch. But nearly ten years have passed, and I think **Lao Yézi**'s guilt has mostly dissipated. Otherwise, he wouldn't have punished the people in **Lao Taitai**'s courtyard for Xu **Shi**'s sake last time. If **Lao Taitai** continues to stay in the Buddha hall and doesn't come out, it would be a free benefit for **Da Taitai** to wield power and influence in the house," **Si Taitai** said.

**Wu Taitai** nodded and said, "I think so too. However, it was **Lao Taitai**'s insistence to enter the Buddha hall in the first place. Now, if we want to persuade her to come out, we need to have a reason, or else it will give people a reason to gossip."

**Si Taitai**'s eyes rolled around twice, and she said, "Isn't Xian **Jie'er** going to get married this winter? You can pretend to be ill at the right time. **Da Taitai** will have to manage the household and won't be able to attend to everything. It would be reasonable for **Lao Taitai**, as the grandmother, to come out and help."

**Wu Taitai**'s eyes lit up, and she clapped her hands, saying, "Yes ah, you've still got a way! I knew coming to you was the right choice."

**Si Taitai** smiled and said, "What's the difference between us sisters-in-law? By the way, how is the matter of my Tong **Jie'er**'s going? Have you found out anything?"

**Wu Taitai** held her hand and said, "I was just about to tell you. Since I received your request, I naturally take it to heart. Recently, I've checked all the families I have connections with who have eligible sons or nephews. Either the person himself is not ambitious, or the mother-in-law is difficult to serve, or the grandmother is biased, or the father has many brothers and there are always issues. There's always something that doesn't go as planned. Later, I found out about my **Biao Gu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="maternal (or Biao) grand aunt."></sup> who is out of mourning period, and I learned that she has a daughter, which is my **Biaomei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Biao younger female cousin"></sup>. She has a son who is nineteen this year, just the right age.

"My **Biao Meifu**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband of a Biao Mei"></sup> surname is He. He is currently serving as an official in the Ministry of Rites. Although his rank is somewhat low, this Biao nephew of mine is truly promising. He is not only talented but has also passed the Tongshi Examination early. He is now studying at the Canglan Academy and preparing for the Great Examination<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="大比 (Dàbǐ): The Great Competition. This refers to the provincial-level imperial examinations (Ju Ren exams) held every three years."></sup> in two years. My **Biaomei** originally planned to consider marriage after he passed the exam. When I mentioned the idea to her, she immediately agreed and said she would come to visit after the Canglan Academy's break."

When **Si Taitai** heard that the son was studying at the prestigious Canglan Academy, where Zhao Huanxu had failed to gain admission, she felt delighted. She held **Wu Taitai**'s hand and said, "Thank you so much for this."

**Wu Taitai** smiled and said, "It's just us sisters-in-law helping each other out. There's no need for formalities."

The two chatted for a while longer before **Wu Taitai** took her leave. **Si Taitai** escorted her to the courtyard gate and whispered in her ear, "You don't need to worry about Zhao Huanxi studying at the Imperial Academy. With his attitude, he's far from catching up with Xu **Ge'er**. Besides, it might turn out like last time, where he was bullied and came back after just a few days of studying…"

Just as they were speaking, they suddenly caught sight of a figure approaching. **Si Taitai** was startled and looked up to see Zhao Huanrong returning in his short coat, carrying a stick. She scolded, "Why are you wandering around so late at night? Hurry back to your room!"

<div class="author-note">
In case you forgot, he's the one ZHX and XNA met in the garden, practicing Martial arts.
</div>()

Zhao Huanrong walked past the two without saying a word and entered the courtyard.

**Wu Taitai** looked at his figure and said to **Si Taitai,,, "He's not young anymore. Why haven't you arranged a marriage for him? Although he's a *Shu* son, if you wait too long, it's inevitable that people will talk."

**Si Taitai** said dismissively, "I've arranged two marriages for him already. His luck wasn't good. The first one was just settled when the girl died of illness before the wedding. The second one eloped with someone and was caught by the family and drowned in a pond. We only said she died of illness to the public. To have two fiancées die before marriage, wouldn't he be labeled as an ill-fated husband? He's a *shu* son and hasn't achieved anything himself. It's difficult to find a match for him. Let's not worry about him. Finding a suitable family for my Tong **Jie'er** is the priority."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the Shenhui Courtyard, the young couple had no mood for anything else in the afternoon after experiencing such an ordeal. They had the medicinal soup, washed up, and went to bed.

After a while, they couldn't fall asleep, so they started chatting.

"Dong **Jiejie**, if we ever encounter such a situation again, please don't take the blow for me. Seeing you get hurt is more painful to me than getting hit myself," Zhao Huanxi said, looking at Xu Nian'an.

"I've been protecting my siblings since I was young, so it's just a habit to protect others in moments of urgency. Don't worry about it," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi lowered his eyelashes, rolled over, and lay on his back, staring at the canopy above without saying a word.

Xu Nian'an originally didn't know that Zhao Mingkun had such a violent and brutal personality. Now that she has experienced it, she feels quite sympathetic towards Zhao Huanxi. With a mother who only knows how to spoil and a father who only knows how to beat, it's no wonder his character has turned out this way.

"Don't doubt yourself. You are good. It's your father who is wrong," Xu Nian'an said after a moment of silence.

Zhao Huanxi stiffened and turned his head abruptly to look at her.

"Although it's common for fathers to discipline their sons, there's no reason to do so without cause. **Zufu**'s punishment of the two neighboring courtyards is also because of your father's mistakes. Our thoughts are the same," Xu Nian'an said softly.

Zhao Huanxi turned away, covering his face with the blanket, and started sobbing. 

Xu Nian'an didn't disturb him.

One moment later, he gradually calmed down and said hoarsely, "I don't know why, but ever since I can remember, he never liked me. He would play with my *shu* brother and teach them their lessons. He was kind to the Tang cousins from other branches, but only to me... whenever I got close to him, he would drive me away. I asked my mother, but she would only hug me, crying and cursing him for being heartless, never giving me an answer.

"When I was young, I got along well with Zhao Huanxu because his father followed **Zufu** to Liaodong for military training and battles for years. Neither of us had a father's care. Later, when **Wu Shufu** died, even he began to distance himself from me, targeting me. I really don't know what I did wrong. Except for my mother and my four sisters, there is no one else in the whole residence who is good to me.

"My mother always says they are not good, but based on her words, I am also not good. They are not good, but they can still get along with each other, what about me? No one is good to me. So in the end, isn't I worse than all of them?"

He turned over, his pale forehead touching a few strands of tousled hair, his eyelashes wet and clumped together. His eyes, slightly red from crying, looked at Xu Nian'an with watery eyes. He asked, "Dong **Jiejie**, you are the first one to say I'm good, and that it's them who are not good. Are these your heartfelt words, or just to comfort me?"
