---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 38"
snippet: "I like a girl like you."
order: 38
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

"This is neither my heartfelt words nor to comfort you." Xu Nian'an looked at the pitiful young man before her and continued in the face of his shocked gaze, "This is the truth."

"Your father is biased, wanting to give the best to your two half-brothers. But according to the rites, whether he likes it or not, he has to give the best to you, the legitimate son. He is resentful in his heart, and instead of venting his anger on your mother, it is naturally more convenient for him to vent on you, his son. As for the other branches, if nothing unexpected happens, the Guogong title will surely be inherited by the First Branch. Looking at the prosperity of this mansion, in the end, it has little to do with them; they will just get a share of the family property and move out. Even if they don't show it on the surface, they must be jealous of you in their hearts. Plus, your mother is protective of you, so they naturally don't want to get close to you.

"Your father is certainly in the wrong, while others may not be, but you are also not at fault. The problem lies in the different identities and positions of each person. Once you step out, you will find that there are people who think highly of you and are willing to befriend you," Xu Nian'an said.

"Then… you also think I'm good?" Zhao Huanxi asked her, his heart pounding.

"Of course."

"When… did you start to think I'm good?"

"The first time we met in the flower field."

Zhao Huanxi was stunned.

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "At that time, you came to me to dissolve the engagement, but when I suggested that we pretend to be a married couple first and then plan for a divorce three years later, you were concerned about my life after the divorce. At that time I thought that you were such a kind and responsible person. How could someone who is kind and responsible not be good?"

Zhao Huanxi blushed.

"I just never expected that you didn't like Pang **Guniang**. Now it's my turn to worry about you. What will you do after our divorce?" Xu Nian'an asked him.

Zhao Huanxi looked at her, his fingers slowly tightening around the corner of the blanket.

Xu Nian'an, seeing him remain silent, said, "How about this? You tell me what kind of girl you like, and in the future, when I accompany your mother to banquets at other families' homes, I'll pay more attention for you."

"I like a girl like you."

When Zhao Huanxi said this, the tent fell into silence.

Their eyes met, and they looked at each other in silence.

After a long while, Xu Nian'an said, "Alright, I'll keep an eye out for you." Then she turned over and faced away from Zhao Huanxi.

Zhao Huanxi looked at the back of her head, dark and smooth like a crow's. For the first time in his life, he understood the unspoken words—

A girl like her would not like a man like him.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The next day, Nanny Hu from Dunyi Hall came to visit the young couple on behalf of **Guogong Yé**. She brought a set of writing materials for Zhao Huanxi, saying that all the formalities had been completed, and he could report to the Imperial Academy at any time. For Xu Nian'an, she brought a lot of nourishing herbs, which were estimated to have come from **Guogong Yé**'s private fund.

In the afternoon, Yin Furen sent someone to change the summer curtains, beddings, and mattresses for the Shenhui Courtyard. When the original curtains were taken down, Zhao Huanxi found something good.

"Ei? Why is there a rope here?" He noticed a finely woven rope hanging from the bed frame, with a jade pendant at the end. Curious, he pulled it, only to hear the tinkling of bells by his ears.

He looked around and pulled it again, only to find that the sound was coming from the door.

"Ei? How strange. Why is the rope on the bed, but the bell it's attached to is here at the door? What's it for?" Zhao Huanxi asked.

Xu Nian'an pretended not to hear.

Zhao Huanxi then looked at Songyun and Nuanxing.

These maids had been trained and naturally knew the purpose of the bell, but they couldn't say it. For a moment, they blushed and shyly ran outside to wait.

Zhao Huanxi felt even more puzzled. He approached Xu Nian'an and leaned in, "Dong **Jiejie**?"

Xu Nian'an sighed helplessly and said, "It's used for calling for water. You don't need it now, so just ignore it."

"Oh."

Yin Furen, being considerate of the young couple, had their dinner sent to the Shenhui Courtyard for them to enjoy alone, sparing them the need to rush to the Jiaxiang House.

After dinner, Xu Nian'an asked Zhao Huanxi, "When do you plan to report to the Imperial Academy?"

According to Zhao Huanxi's preference, the later he went, the better. However, since **Zufu** had already arranged everything and he was not in poor health, if he delayed going, **Zufu** might not be pleased.

Moreover, more than displeasing **Zufu**, he was more worried that Xu Nian'an would think he was incompetent.

"Tomorrow we'll pack up and the day after tomorrow we'll go to report. How do you feel about that?" He asked Xu Nian'an tentatively.

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment and said, "How about we go to the market tomorrow to see what kind of things scholars like to use lately, and buy some? We can pack up the writing materials and other items the day after tomorrow and go to report the day after that. How does that sound?"

Zhao Huanxi was very willing to see that the day of reporting was postponed by one more day.

As they were talking, the tea on the table ran out. Zhao Huanxi stood up, and Xu Nian'an thought he was going to call the maidservant to bring more tea, so she didn't pay much attention. Unexpectedly, he quickly walked to the side of the bed and pulled the rope he had only discovered during the day.

When the bell on the door rang, Xu Nian'an suddenly realized what was happening. She tried to stop him but was too late. She stared at Zhao Huanxi and said, "Didn't I tell you this is for calling for water?"

Zhao Huánxī said, "We already bathed in the afternoon. If we call for water now, they will naturally know it's for tea." After saying that, he pulled the rope again and said joyfully, "With such a convenient thing, why didn't you tell me earlier?"

Xu Nian'an raised her hand to her forehead: "......"

After a while, the maids knocked on the door, then entered without waiting for a response.

Zhao Huanxi looked at the two basins of clear water they were carrying: "......" It really was just for calling water!
<br>

The next morning, Xu Nian'an deliberately woke up early. Seeing that Zhao Huanxi was still asleep, she didn't wake him up and instead freshened up before going to Jiaxiang House to greet Yin Furen.

Yin Furen, seeing her, said, "Didn't I tell you not to come to greet me this month? Is your lower back still hurting?"

"It's not hurting anymore, thanking Mother for the concern. Mother, yesterday **Zufu** sent someone to say that **Sanlang**'s enrollment in the Imperial Academy has been arranged, and **Sanlang** has agreed to report in the next few days."

Yin Furen was very happy to hear this. "That's great."

"But I feel that before **Sanlang** goes to the Imperial Academy to report, there is one thing that needs to be done first," Xu Nian'an said.

"What is it?"

"To toughen his courage."

A moment later, Xu Nian'an returned to the Shenhui Courtyard with the requisition  tally and the money given by Yin Furen.

Zhao Huanxi had already gotten up and was sitting at the table, yawning repeatedly as he asked her, "Where did you go so early?"

"I went to Mother to get the money and the token. After we finish breakfast, we can leave," she replied.

As soon as Zhao Huanxi heard this, his drowsiness disappeared, and he asked eagerly, "How much money did Mother give?"

"Two hundred taels," Xu Nian'an replied.

"Is it enough? Do we need to bring two more little horses?"

Xu Nian'an took a moment to realize that he was referring to the golden horse figurines in his box.

"It's enough; we're not buying anything big." She thought for a moment and then cautioned Zhao Huanxi, "Don't casually use your little horses. Before I married you, you had all your horses, but after I married you, your horses slowly disappeared. If Mother finds out, won't I become a wasteful daughter-in-law?"

Zhao Huanxi was taken aback for a moment, then laughed brightly and nodded, "Okay, I won't."

After breakfast, Zhao Huanxi couldn't wait and said, "Let's go, let's go."

"What's the rush? Change your clothes first. You're dressed so nicely; afraid someone won't rip you off?" 

Zhao Huanxi: "..."

In fact, Zhao Huanxi didn't have any particularly plain clothes. After rummaging through the wardrobe for a while, he could only choose a relatively elegant color to wear. When he was at home, he wore a jade crown, but this time he wasn't allowed to wear it. He just inserted a simple jade hairpin into his glossy hair bun and called it a day.

Despite his efforts to dress modestly, there was no way to conceal his face. Even the most inconspicuous clothes, paired with his remarkable face, became eye-catching.

Xu Nian'an looked him up and down, realizing her efforts were in vain. She couldn't help but sigh and said, "This will do."

After traveling for a while, Xu Nian'an quietly lifted the curtain at the back of the carriage to take a look. She saw two strong guards following the carriage at a distance. Feeling relieved, she turned back to Zhao Huanxi to discuss their itinerary for the day.

They first went to Xingyuan Bookstore.

"Yo, Zhao **Gongzi**, you're here. Please come in!" Zhao Huánxī didn't visit often, but he was exceptionally good-looking, so the bookstore's attendants remembered him and recognized him at a glance.

Zhao Huanxi led Xu Nian'an inside and asked the attendant, "Is there a private room available?"

The attendant smiled and replied, "It's still early, and there aren't many people in the bookstore. Only one private room has been reserved. Would **Gongzi** like the one with the best view?"

Zhao Huanxi nodded.

As the attendant was about to leave, Zhao Huanxi asked him, "What books have been selling well recently?"

The attendant said, "**Gongzi**, please follow **Xiode**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. this little one"></sup> to the second floor. **Xiaode** will show *you*."

Zhao Huanxi turned to look at Xu Nian'an, who was already holding a book. She raised her head and said to him, "You go ahead. I'll come find you in a bit."

Zhao Huanxi followed the attendant upstairs and glanced around. He noticed only a young master reading there. He didn't pay much attention and started browsing the new books as the attendant had mentioned.

The attendant went downstairs to bring him tea and snacks. Zhao Huanxi stood there, flipping through a few pages of the book in his hand. He was about to sit at the long table near the window, but as he turned around, he was startled.

The young master had silently approached Zhao Huanxi and was now leaning in, staring intently at his face.

"What are you doing?" Zhao Huanxi stepped back, more startled than angry, with the book still in his hands.

Qian Ming examined his face, his eyes brightening. He clapped his hands with the folding fan and sang (in chinese traditional opera style) in a playful tone, "Today, the beauty bestowed by the heavens is truly unparalleled in the world."

Zhao Huanxi widened his eyes, thinking he had encountered someone with a mental problem. He turned around and walked away.

"**Gongzi**, **Gongzi**, please wait!" Qian Ming saw that Zhao Huanxi had a pleasing figure and appearance, and his heart was filled with joy. He followed him with the small, quick steps typical of a stage performer.

Seeing him approach like that, Zhao Huanxi's whole body was on edge. He threw the book in his hand at him and angrily rebuked, "If you come any closer, don't blame me for being rude!"

"It's my rudeness, **Gongzi**, please forgive me. **Gongzi**, please, just hear me out." Despite Zhao Huanxi's actions, Qian Ming continued to sing in a theatrical tone. They circled the bookshelves, one chasing, the other dodging and throwing books at him, creating a mess.

The shop attendant brought tea and saw the scene. Despite his attempts to intervene, he couldn't resolve the situation. He hurried downstairs to report: "**Zhanggui**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="shopkeeper/manager"></sup>, Zhao **Gongzi** and Qian **Gongzi** seem to have some dispute. Zhao **Gongzi** is throwing books at Qian **Gongzi**. Please come up and see what's happening!"
