---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 40"
snippet: "The young couple goes shopping."
order: 40
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The young couple arrived at the Xiangfeng Tower, where the serving girls seemed to have been replaced. They didn't recognize Zhao Huanxi, and he didn't mind. He simply said to look around casually, without needing their company.

The interior of the Xiangfeng Tower is luxurious. The first floor is divided into several areas with various display cabinets, showcasing different types of jewellery, mostly made of gold and jade. Each piece is exquisitely crafted with magnificent designs.

Xu Nian'an glanced around and immediately knew that the jewellery here was definitely not cheap. She tugged at Zhao Huanxi's sleeve and whispered, "Do you think we have enough silver with us?"

Zhao Huanxi also whispered, "It's fine, we can put it on credit."  

Xu Nian'an: "....."

Not long after they entered, Xu Nian'an began to feel that several girls who had been looking at the jewellery were now casting glances, intentional or not, toward the man beside her. It seemed that no matter whether it was a man or a woman, being too good-looking was troublesome.

The two of them moved to the shelf displaying earrings. Zhao Huanxi immediately spotted a pair of earrings carved from jade into the shape of lotus leaves and lotus flowers. He took them off and asked Xu Nian'an, "What do you think of these? Are they nice?"

The design was natural, with intricate carving, and the jade colours were elegant and fresh, particularly suitable for wearing in the summer. Xu Nian'an also liked them when she saw them and nodded, saying, "They're beautiful."

"I'll help you put them on." Zhao Huanxi put one earring back on the shelf and held the other one, ready to help her put it on.

Xu Nian'an said, "We haven't asked about the price yet."

"No matter the price, as long as you like them." Zhao Huanxi glanced at the hook on the earring and then at the barely visible tiny holes on Xu Nian'an's fair earlobes. He hesitated, worried, and asked, "Will it hurt ah?"

"It won't, let me do it myself." Xu Nian'an reached out to take the earring from his hand.

"You can't see it, let me help you." Zhao Huanxi carefully pinched the edge of Xu Nian'an's right earlobe with the fingertips of his left thumb and index finger, and put the earring on her.

Xu Nian'an turned her head, and the earring swayed slightly against her cheek. She asked, "Does it look good?"  

The translucent jade pendant against her flawless skin, how could it not look good? 

"It looks good." Zhao Huanxi's cheeks flushed.

Xu Nian'an asked, "Why are you blushing when I'm the one who looks good?"  

Zhao Huanxi glared at her embarrassedly. As he turned to reach for the other earring, a hand with nails dyed with henna suddenly reached out from behind him and snatched the earring away.

He turned around in surprise and saw a young woman with slender eyes and drooping eyebrows standing behind him, whom he didn't know had been there. Behind her stood a woman he recognized, Xu Nian'an's estranged *Shu* sister, Xu Hai'an.

When Zhao Huanxi turned around, Xu Hai'an, who had been blocked by him, and Xu Nian'an also saw each other.

Xu Hai'an must have recognized the two early on. She didn't show any surprise, nor did she greet them. Instead, she quietly lowered her head.

"Yo, these earrings are really nice. I'll take them. **Dimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's younger sister"></sup>, go get the other one for me." The woman who snatched the earring spoke in a very unpleasant and sharp tone.

She didn't recognize Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an. Seeing that the two of them were dressed modestly and didn't have many valuable accessories on their heads, she assumed that they were just from a slightly well-off family and would be easy to bully.

"**Da Sao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="eldest brother's wife"></sup>, isn't this inappropriate?" Xu Hai'an's voice was like a mosquito, showing great fear towards her **Da Sao**.

The woman was about to scold her, but a maidservant from the shop walked over and bowed to the woman, saying, "Furen, this pair of earrings was chosen by this **Gongzi** first. Would *you* like to look at something else?"

The serving girl had been subtly watching Zhao Huanxi all along, so she knew that he had picked up this pair of earrings first.

"Has he paid for them?" the woman raised her eyebrows and asked.  

The serving girl hesitated, "...Not yet."  

"Are you suggesting that I can't afford them?" The woman raised her hand and slapped the maid across the face.

Zhao Huanxi, angered by her arrogant and provocative behavior, shouted, "Where does this *shrew* comes from? Guards!"  
<div class="author-note">
The word he used was 泼妇 - pofu, an overbearing and unreasonable woman.
</div>

Two men who were guarding the door outside immediately rushed in.  

Pointing at the woman, Zhao Huanxi commanded, "Throw her out!"

The two men really followed his orders and moved to grab the woman.  

The serving girl quickly snatched the earring from her hand. The woman's arms were twisted, and she struggled, shouting, "How dare you be rude to me! Do you know who I am?"

Zhao Huanxi, impatient, said, "With your lack of manners, how could you be a decent person? Throw her out, throw her out!"  

"Hahaha, well said! Who do you think you are? Daring to cause trouble in my shop, throw her out, no discussion!"

A silver bell-like laughter suddenly came from the doorway. Xu Nian'an found it familiar. When she turned her head to look, she saw that it was Zhao Jiazhen. No wonder the two men listened to Zhao Huanxi's orders.

"Zhao Jiazhen, how dare you treat guests in your shop like this? Aren't you afraid that word will get out, and no one will dare to come to your building to buy jewellery again?" The woman shouted at Zhao Jiazhen.

"So, you can only came up with this idea? Well, everyone has eyes. Can't they see the truth for themselves? Instead of using such despicable means to suppress your sister-in-law's competitors, why not focus on making the jewellery more beautiful? Remember this face, don't let her in again, throw her out!" Zhao Jiazhen waved her hand dismissively.
<div class="author-note">
The word used for sister-in-law here was 娘家嫂子 which means a sister-in-law in her maiden family's home. This means her brother's wife is a business competitor to this Xiangfeng Tower.
</div>

As the woman cursed and shouted, she was thrown out, with Xu Hai'an following behind.

"**San Jie**." Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an then had the chance to greet Zhao Jiazhen.

Zhao Jiazhen stepped forward and took Xu Nian'an's hand, affectionately asking, "What brings you to my shop today?"

Xu Nian'an glanced at Zhao Huanxi beside her and said, "I accidentally dropped an earring, and **Sanlang** offered to buy me a new one. He brought me here. No wonder he didn't ask about the price and said we could put it on credit. It turns out he's *beating **San Jie**’s autumn wind*."
<div class="author-note">
打秋风 (da qiufeng) - lit. means beating the autumn wind, which means to exploit someone because of their wealth.
</div>

Zhao Jiazhen laughed heartily. "What beating the autumn wind? What's there for me to be reluctant about when it comes to my **Di Mei**? Come with me."

She instructed the maid who had been slapped to go downstairs and rest, then said to the few guests on the first floor, "Dear **Xiaojie**s and **Furen**s, feel free to choose today. Everything will be offered at a discounted price."

Upon hearing this, everyone was delighted and thanked her one after another. Zhao Jiazhen entertained everyone for a while before taking Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an upstairs.

"Your timing is perfect. Mother just sent someone yesterday to tell me that she wants to give **Di Mei** three sets of headpieces. Since you're here, we can choose the styles together," Zhao Jiazhen said.

"Three sets of headpieces for me? Why?" Xu Nian'an asked.  

"There are many social interactions and engagements within the family. As the legitimate daughter-in-law of the First Branch, you will attend many events with Mother, so you will need these headpieces," Zhao Jiazhen said, then turned to Xu Nian'an with a smile. "Of course, that's the formal explanation. The informal one is that my dear mother likes you as a daughter-in-law and wants to give you headpieces."

Xu Nian'an blushed slightly, while Zhao Huanxi interjected, "**San Jie** you, don't tease Nian'an."  

Zhao Jiazhen raised an eyebrow. "Oh, so now that you're married, you've forgotten about your sister?"  

Now it was Zhao Huanxi's turn to blush.

On the second floor, Zhao Jiazhen arranged for the young couple to stay in the room she used for entertaining guests and sent someone to call the goldsmiths in the building.

The goldsmith brought a catalog of styles. Knowing that Zhao Huanxi had a good eye, Xu Nian'an let him choose for her.

Zhao Huanxi picked out three sets of headpieces for her, and even made some modification suggestions based on his own taste for some of the styles. The goldsmith agreed with his suggestions and took careful notes. 

By the time everything was finalized, it was already late. Zhao Jiazhen, fearing that Yin Furen would worry, didn't dare to keep the couple any longer. Before they left, she gave Xu Nian'an a pair of new jade lotus flower earrings.

On the carriage ride back, Zhao Huanxi suddenly asked Xu Nian'an, "Your **Er Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="second (younger) sister"></sup>, is she intentionally not revealing our identities?"

Xu Nian'an, who had been leaning tiredly against the carriage wall, sat up straight in surprise and looked at Zhao Huanxi. "You noticed?"  

"En, from the way she is, she probably hasn't been living well in her husband's family," Zhao Huanxi said.

Xu Nian'an leaned back against the carriage wall again and looked out the window. "It's her own choice, and she has to bear the consequences."

When Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi returned to the Jing Guogong Residence, it was already past mealtime. They first went to Jiaxiang House to greet Yin Furen.

Yin Furen had learned about the incident at Jilong Lane early on from the two guards and didn't ask them much about it. She just told them to hurry back to Shenhui Courtyard to change and have their meal.

While Zhao Huanxi was getting ready, he remembered the lipstick mark on his outer robe. He quickly took it off the rack and hid it in the cabinet when Xu Nian'an wasn't looking. 

After changing his clothes and having dinner, he excused himself to the study, saying that he wanted to read.

Xu Nian'an noticed that he was acting strangely, but she was feeling a bit sleepy and didn't want to think too much about it. It wasn't until Xiaowei came out and said, "**San Nainai**, we can't find **San Yé**'s outer robe," that she realized something was amiss.  

Xu Nian'an: ".........Let's look for it tomorrow."
<br>

The next day was uneventful, with the two of them staying at Shen​hui Courtyard to pack his book boxes. Zhao Huanxi, having previously attended the Imperial Axademy, knew what to bring, but to ensure nothing was overlooked, Xu Nian'an also called Zhiyi and Zhi'er to help pack.

In the evening, after confirming that **Guogong Yé** had returned and eaten his meal, they went together to Dunyi Hall to inform him that Zhao Huanxi would report to the Imperial Academy the next day. **Guogong Yé** was pleased that there was no delay.

On the day of reporting, both of them woke up very early.

Xu Nian'an tidied up Zhao Huanxi's clothes and accessories while admonishing him, "Remember what I told you. Ignore trivial matters, but if someone bullies you, you must fight back. There's nothing to be afraid of."

"En!" Zhao Huanxi thought of what happened at Jilong Lane and felt a bit ashamed and secretly made up his mind to be a brave person.

After packing up and having breakfast, the two of them went to Jiaxiang House together. Yin Furen gave them many reminders, and finally, Xu Nian'an walked Zhao Huanxi to the corner gate.

Zhiyi and Zhi'er put the book boxes and a set of clothes for changing onto the carriage.

Zhao Huanxi looked at Xu Nian'an, feeling distressed at the thought of spending the whole day with unpleasant people and not being able to see her.

"In the afternoon, come pick me up after my classes," he said.

"I know, didn't I promise you that yesterday?" Xu Nian'an replied.

"I'm afraid you might forget," Zhao Huanxi muttered.

"I won't forget. Hurry and get on the carriage. It's your first day reporting, don't be late," Xu Nian'an urged him.

Zhao Huanxi climbed onto the carriage, taking three steps before turning to look back at her. Even as the carriage started moving, he lifted the curtain to peek at her.

Xu Nian'an stood at the doorway, smiling and waving to him. 

Zhao Huanxi returned her smile before finally letting the curtain fall back and withdrawing into the carriage.

