---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 43"
snippet: "Dodging the scumbag father, hiding in the lotus thicket."
order: 43
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In the disordered silence of his heartbeats, Zhao Huanxi felt an unprecedented tight embrace in his arms. His cheeks were burning, his throat was dry, and his fingers curled up, completely unsure how to respond, until Xu Nian'an's voice, choked with emotion, sounded: "Thank you."

She let go of him, quickly wiped her eyes with a handkerchief, raised her head, and looked at Zhao Huanxi with a slight smile, saying, "Thank you for helping us siblings take revenge."

Zhao Huanxi looked at her wet eyelashes and took a moment to respond, "The bully you mentioned who broke your brother's arm, was it Zhu Zhifu?"

Xu Nian'an nodded.

"Why didn't you say so earlier? If I had known earlier, I would have smashed him a few more times today!" Zhao Huanxi waved his hand in a hitting motion and said loudly.

Xu Nian'an couldn't help but smile and said, "But you can't really smash someone to death."

The more Zhao Huanxi thought about it, the angrier he became. "This bully who takes advantage of others, I can't coexist with him!" He no longer felt any guilt for hitting him too hard.

Xu Nian'an continued to help him straighten his belt, and asked softly, "Have you had lunch? Do you want to eat more?"

At this moment, Zhao Huanxi had no appetite, so he shook his head.

"Then let's read the books we bought the day before yesterday and wait for **Zufu** to come back," Xu Nian'an suggested.

The two of them took a book and sat down by the window to read together.

After about half an hour, Songyun hurriedly called from outside, "**San Yé**, **San Nainai**!"

Xu Nian'an quickly got up and went to open the door, asking, "What's the matter?"

"Zhiyi just came to report that the Cheng *Guogong* has arrived, looking like he's ready to *mobilize forces for justice*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="兴师问罪 - (idiom) mobilizing troops to demand an explanation for wrongdoing, but it is more broadly used to describe a situation where a large group of people is mobilized to denounce or condemn someone."></sup>. **Da Laoyé** went to the front hall and talked to him for a while. Now he's coming to the backyard with the residence's guards."

Zhao Huanxi saw Xu Nian'an standing by the door, frowning and silent. He stood up and said, "*One is responsible for one's deed*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="一人做事一人当-(idiom) the mistakes you made are your own responsibility."></sup>. I'll go see him myself…"

"What responsibility?" Xu Nian'an pulled him back.

Zhao Mingkun, her father-in-law, was the kind of person she couldn't deal with. He was unreasonable, quick to violence, and also an elder. Facing him head-on like last time would only result in being abused.

"Mingli, you stay in the room and make some noise from time to time, pretending that **San Yé** and I are still inside. Songyun, you lead some to guard the door and say that I'm bathing inside, not allowing them to enter. Delay as much as possible. Yisu, come with us." Xu Nian'an arranged everything, grabbed Zhao Huanxi, and ran outside.

Zhao Huanxi asked as he ran, "Where are we going?"

"To hide in the Zhilan Garden and wait for **Zufu** to return," Xu Nian'an replied.

Zhao Huanxi: "......" Can we really do that?
<br>

In the Fourth Branch, **Si Taitai** was about to go to the Fifth Branch to find **Wu Taitai** when her trusted maid rushed in, out of breath, saying, "**Taitai**, **Taitai**, there's a big problem in the First Branch!"

"What happened?" **Si Nainai** asked anxiously.

"I heard that the First Branch's Xi **San Yé** severely injured Cheng **Guogong**'s only son. Cheng **Guogong** has come to the residence looking ready to *mobilize forces for justice*. He said his son is still unconscious, and his mother, Zhu **Lao Furen**, fainted in distress. He demanded an explanation from **Da Laoyé**!"

**Si Taitai**'s eyes lit up. "How can there be such a good thing?! What did **Da Laoyé** say?"

"**Da Laoyé** took the residence's guards and went to Shenhui Courtyard to get Xi **San Yé**."

**Si Taitai** was delighted and said as she walked out, "Such excitement, we can't miss it."
<br>

In Shenhui Yuan, Zhao Mingkun stood in the courtyard with ten guards. Songyun stood with Xiaowei and others guarding the main entrance, saying, "**Da Laoyé**, **San Nainai** is bathing inside, *you* can't come in."

"It's neither early nor late. What bathing? I'm afraid it's just an excuse!" Zhao Mingkun scolded.

Songyun just made a respectful gesture without arguing.

Even so, Zhao Mingkun didn't dare to enter the room easily, nor did he dare to let the guards enter. If his daughter-in-law was really in the room with disheveled clothes, **Lao Yézi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="老爷子 - a respectful term used to refer to an elderly man or one's father or an elderly patriarch in a family."></sup> would have skin him alive!

Helpless, he could only shout sternly towards the room, "Zhao Huanxi, you get out here!"

The only response from the room was the sound of a chair being overturned.

Zhao Mingkun imagined Zhao Huanxi kicking the chair down like a little beast, and in a fit of anger, he was about to send someone to find a few maids outside. Just then, he turned his head and saw the **Si Taitai**, Liu **Shi**, peeking at the courtyard gate.

"**Si Di**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th younger brother"></sup>'s wife, you're here just in time. Please, go into the room and drag out that little beast Zhao Huanxi for me!" Zhao Mingkun said to Liu **Shi**.

**Si Taitai** hesitated, "This… you First Branchs' affairs, isn't it inappropriate for me to intervene?"

Zhao Mingkun urged, "This little beast injured Cheng **Guogong**'s son. Cheng **Guogong** is now in the front hall. If we don't give him an explanation, it will be unlucky for our entire Jing Guogong Residence. Asking for **Si Di**'s wife *thousand tens of thousands*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="千万-used for emphasis, meaning 'kindly' or 'please' help."></sup>."

Upon hearing this, **Si Taitai*, knew she couldn't refuse to help. She then took her trusted maid and headed towards the main room of Shenhui Courtyard.

Songyun interjected, "**Si Taitai**, this is an affair of First Branch…"

"You lowly maid, didn't you hear your **Da Laoyé** say that this matter concerns our entire Jing Guogong Residence? Step aside quickly!" **Si Taitai** pushed Songyun away aggressively and barged into the room. Before she could even steady herself, Mingli poured a basin of cold water over her from head to toe.

"O yo!" **Si Taitai** shivered, realizing she was completely soaked. She was so angry that she grabbed Mingli's ear and scolded, "You're asking for death, dare to splash water on me?"

Mingli pushed her away and said, "I was splashing water in our **Nainai**'s room. Who's to blame for barging in?"

"You disrespectful maid, how dare you show disrespect to **Si Taitai**!" The maid next to **Si Taitai** came over to scold and hit Mingli. When Xiaowei and the others outside saw this, they came in to help, causing a commotion.

Zhao Mingkun heard the commotion and realized something was wrong. Unable to enter rashly, he could only ask loudly, "**Si Di**'s wife, where is that little beast?"

**Si Taitai**, regardless of being soaking wet, rushed into the inner room and found it empty, with no sign of anyone.

"**Da Bo**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's eldest brother"></sup>, there's no one in the room. He's probably run away long ago!" She shouted to the courtyard.

Upon hearing this, Zhao Mingkun ordered the people around him, "Quickly go to each gate and instruct them not to let that little beast out. The rest of you, hurry and search!"

As he walked out of Shenhui Courtyard, he glanced at the closed gate of Shenxiu Courtyard (his two shu sons' courtyards that was grounded) on the left and went to find Zhao Huanxi with a furrowed brow.

In Zhilan Garden, Xu Nian'an, Zhao Huanxi, and Yisu were all running with flushed faces and panting breaths. The sun was scorching, making it unbearable. The three of them hid under a shady tree.

After resting for a while, Yisu walked to the lakeside ahead, looking into the distance, keeping watch for the two of them.

"Dong **Jiejie**, where are we going to hide?" Zhao Huanxi asked while panting.

Xu Nian'an fanned herself with her hand, feeling somewhat helpless. "This is your home. Why are you asking me? In such a large garden, there must be one or two places that are not easily found by others, right?"

"Oh no, oh no, **Xiaojie**, **Gu Yé**, it seems like they're coming after us," Yisu said in a flustered tone as she looked across the bank.

Xu Nian'an went over to take a look and indeed saw a large group of people emerging from among the trees on the opposite bank and heading towards them.

"How did they arrive so quickly? It seems like Songyun and the others didn't delay them much," she said, pulling Zhao Huanxi and continuing to run.

They were also seen by the opposite side. One of the guards pointed and said, "**Da Laoyé**, they're over there."

Zhao Mingkun realized that shouting at such a distance might not be heard, so he urged the guards, "Quick, chase after them!"

Xu Nian'an pulled Zhao Huanxi along as they ran, thinking to herself: This is the advantage of a large estate and a prominent family. In an ordinary household, where would you find such a vast space to run? They would have got caught long ago.

However, the physical strength of the two girls, along with Zhao Huanxi, was definitely not comparable to the robust guards behind them. At this rate, they would be caught sooner or later. 

What should they do?

Lost in thought, they suddenly saw a person emerge from the shade ahead, startling them all to a halt as they stared in astonishment.

Zhao Huanrong, wearing a short robe, looked up and was also stunned. Why were these three people looking at him in shock?
<div class="author-note">
In case you forget, he's the shu son of the Fourth Branch. 
</div>

Thinking that he had startled them, he lowered his head and tried to pass by the three of them.

Zhao Huanxi came to his senses and hurriedly said, "Huanrong **Tangxiong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older male Tang cousin"></sup>, do you know of any place nearby where we can hide? My father is chasing me from behind to beat me."

At this point, they could already hear the guards' chaotic and hurried footsteps behind them.

Zhao Huanrong pointed to the side, and Zhao Huanxi and the others quickly hid behind several banana trees by the side of the path.

Zhao Huanrong had only taken a few steps forward when Zhao Mingkun arrived with the guards.

"Huanrong, have you seen Huanxi and the others?" Zhao Mingkun asked, also out of breath.

"They went towards Hua'e Hall," Zhao Huanrong replied.

Knowing that this shu son of thw Fourth Branch had no dealings with the First Branch, Zhao Mingkun did not suspect him of lying. He hurriedly led the guards in the direction of Hua'e Hall.

Watching them disappear at the end of the lush path, Zhao Huanrong walked to the banana trees and said to the three startled individuals, "Follow me."

The three of them came out from behind the banana trees and followed him along the lakeside for a while. They saw a small pier with a small boat moored beside it.

Zhao Huanrong got on the small boat, helped the three of them onto the boat, and then took up the oar, rowing the boat into the dense lotus flowers that covered Lan Lake, obscuring them from view.

Zhao Huanrong looked back and saw that the boat was deep into the lotus bushes, likely out of sight from the shore. He sat down at the bow of the boat.

Zhao Huanxi looked at the lotus flowers and leaves surrounding the boat and exclaimed, "Huanrong **Tangxiong**, you really have a way."

Zhao Huanrong just nodded slightly, seeming to be not very good at speaking.

The three of them were sweating profusely. Xu Nian'an wet a handkerchief in the lake water and wiped her sweat.

Zhao Huanxi saw this and leaned his face over.

Xu Nian'an: ".....Where is your handkerchief?"

"You didn't give it to me when I changed clothes just now," Zhao Huanxi said innocently.

It was then that Xu Nian'an remembered, "But I've already used this one." She pointed to her own handkerchief in her hand.

"Am I going to dislike yours?" Zhao Huanxi said.

Helpless, Xu Nian'an had to dip her handkerchief into the lake water and carefully wiped Zhao Huanxi's swollen cheek.

Zhao Huanrong and Yisu both felt embarrassed to look at them. They averted their gazes, and accidentally made eye contact.

Possibly due to frequent sun exposure, Zhao Huanrong's complexion was not as fair as the usual **Gongzi** of noble households. He was tall and strong, and because he often wore short robes for the convenience of martial arts practice, he looked somewhat like a countryman at first glance. However, upon closer inspection, one would notice his thick eyebrows, big eyes, high nose, and thin lips, giving him a very handsome and heroic appearance.

"Rong **Wu Yé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. Fifth Master. Rong here is his name Huan'rong'."></sup>, thank you for your help. I haven't used this handkerchief, so you can use it to wipe off your sweat." Yisu handed over the handkerchief somewhat shyly. She saw that Zhao Huanrong was sweating profusely from rowing the boat, and even his robe was soaked, so she wanted to thank him on behalf of her **Gu Yé** and **Xiaojie**.

Yisu lowered her head, and Zhao Huanrong could only see her fair neck and rosy cheeks. He didn't dare to look for long, just politely said, "No need, thank you." He deftly lifted his arm and wiped the sweat off his face with the sleeve of his robe.
