---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 44"
snippet: "I was wrong, but I'll do it again next time!"
order: 44
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The four of them rested for a while, and their emotions gradually calmed down. 

"I'm thirsty," Zhao Huanxi said to Xu Nian'an. 

Xu Nian'an deliberately asked him, "Do you want to drink the lake water?"

Zhao Huanxi shook his head vigorously, like beating a drum, "Mom said drinking lake water will make you sick." 

"Then you can only endure it," Xu Nian'an shrugged.

"**Xiaojie**, there are lotus seeds over there." 

It was not yet the Seventh Month, and there were many lotus pods around, but not many were edible. Yisu saw one of suitable size not far away.

She stood up cautiously, stretching her arms to reach, but she was still a bit short after all. The small boat rocked unsteadily, and she didn't dare to move too close to the edge.

"Be careful not to fall. Let me do it," Zhao Huanrong stood up, balancing the small boat while reaching out to pick the lotus pod, then handed it to Yisu.

"Thank you, **Wu Yé**." Yisu lowered her head, took it, then sat down again, picked up a small lotus leaf and placed it on her leg, and started to peel the lotus pod.

Xu Nian'an, taking Yisu's suggestion, also picked an edible lotus pod.

Zhao Huanxi was originally curious about how she peeled the lotus pod, but seeing the sun shining brightly on her, he picked a large lotus leaf and held it up like an umbrella for her.

Zhao Huanrong, at the other end of the boat, watched, then glanced at Yisu who was not far from him. She was also in the sun, with a glistening sweat on her forehead.

After hesitating for a moment, he thought that it was just a simple gesture and there was no need to overthink it, so he also picked a large lotus leaf, straightened his arm, and held it up for Yisu.

Feeling the sudden coolness overhead, Yisu first looked up in puzzlement and then saw Zhao Huanrong holding the lotus leaf for her.

She was flattered for a moment that she forgot her words. 

Zhao Huanrong, feeling awkward under her surprised gaze, turned his face away. 

Yisu then regained her composure and whispered, "Thank you, **Wu Yé**."

Xu Nian'an calmly glanced at the two of them and then stuffed a freshly peeled lotus seed into Zhao Huanxi's mouth.

"Mmm, it's so delicious, sweet and tender, much better than the kind in the tremella soup," Zhao Huanxi exclaimed as if he had discovered something remarkable, marveling at the taste.

"Don't make noise! Be careful not to attract **Gongdiē**!" Xu Nian'an said. 

Zhao Huanxi was so scared that he covered his mouth. 

Xu Nian'an and Yisu started laughing, their shoulders shaking. 

Only then did Zhao Huanxi realize. How could his voice be heard on the shore?

"You're teasing me again!" he said angrily. 

When Zhao Huanrong saw this, he couldn't help but form a curve on his lips.

"Cheng **Guogong** still having the time to come here shows that Zhu Zhifu is indeed not seriously injured. Have you thought about how to deal with him when he recovers and comes to trouble you at the Imperial Academy?" Xu Nian'an didn't mince her words in front of Zhao Huanrong and asked directly.

"Then I'll just keep hitting him. It's good to vent for Wenlin (Xu Moxiu’s courtesy name)," Zhao Huanxi replied without hesitation.

"This time was lucky. You can't just hit someone's head randomly; one mistake could cost a life. Even if you don't have to pay with your life, your life will be ruined. In my opinion, it's better for you to learn some martial arts moves, ones that can hurt but not kill," Xu Nian'an suggested.

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment, nodded, "That works." Then he looked at Zhao Huanrong and asked, "**Tangxiong**, can you teach me?"

Zhao Huanrong shook his head, "I've been practicing blindly on my own, so I can't teach you. If you really want to learn, you might as well ask **Zufu** to find a proper master to teach you."

“Then….” Before Zhao Huanxi could ask why Zhao Huanrong didn't ask **Zufu** to find a proper master to teach him, Xu Nian'an blocked his mouth with a lotus seed.

"**Tangxiong** is absolutely right. It's best to ask **Zufu** to find a master for teaching martial arts. **Tangxiong**, I have a request that may be unwelcome," Xu Nian'an said.

"Please do say."

"If **Zufu** finds a master for **Sanlang**, can we invite **Tangxiong** to join the practice as well? Otherwise, he might lose interest after a while, and I'm afraid he won't be able to persist for long," Xu Nian'an said with a smile.

Zhao Huanrong hesitated. 

In his heart, he was willing. 

He knew what Zhao Huanxi wanted to ask him just now. As a son of a concubine, how could his status compare with that of the First Branch’s legitimate eldest son? He naturally adhered to the principle of doing less rather than more. Even the help just now was just a result of a momentary impulse.

But to practice martial arts with him, if there were any bumps or bruises, everyone in the whole household knows how **Da Taitai** would be extremely worried about her only son.

Zhao Huanxi, seeing him not agreeing, became anxious and said, "**Tangxiong**, why don't you practice with me? If you find it inconvenient to come and go every day, there are vacant rooms in Shenhui Courtyard in the East and West Wing, you can choose one."

Xu Nian'an quickly interjected, "Don't speak nonsense. **Tangxiong**'s parents (his father and the legitimate mother) are both here. There’s no reason for him to live in a **Tangdi**’s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="younger male Tang cousin."></sup> courtyard? But for you, if **Tangxiong** practices with you, accidents can happen in martial arts. If there's any bump or bruise, you must not complain or be lazy. **Tangxiong** will definitely practice seriously. If you give up halfway, how will that make **Tangxiong**?" She then smiled apologetically at Zhao Huanrong, "**Tangxiong**, please don't be offended. I was thoughtless just now."

"No, **Tangxiong**, if you practice with me, I will never complain or give up halfway. I swear it." Zhao Huanxi raised three fingers and said, "If I violate this oath, let me, let me choke to death on lotus seeds!"

Xu Nian'an: "......"

Zhao Huanrong was also straightforward. Seeing that his **Tangdi** was willing to swear to practice martial arts with him, he nodded in agreement.

Yisu peeled the lotus seeds and wanted to hand them over to Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an, while peeling the lotus pod, said, "Here, have some."

Yisu paused for a moment, then handed the lotus leaf with the seeds to Zhao Huanrong.

Zhao Huanrong looked down, accepted her kindness, took a small handful, and thanked her, "Thank you."

Yisu took the lotus leaf from Zhao Huanrong's hand and held it up herself. 

The four of them stayed hidden in the lotus pond until the sun started to set and the mosquitoes became more numerous. Xu Nian'an stood up and looked towards the shore, not seeing anyone. She murmured to herself, "I wonder if **Zufu** has returned."

"Even if **Zufu** hasn't returned, Mom must have already returned. Let's go back," Zhao Huanxi said, feeling hungry.

"Alright."

Zhao Huanrong rowed the boat back to the shore. Before they could leave the Zhilan Garden, they met a maid from Yin Furen's courtyard on the way.

"Oh, **San Yé**, **San Nainai**, I've finally found you. Please hurry back, **Da Taitai** is very worried," the maid said.

"Has **Zufu** returned?" Zhao Huanxi asked her.

"**Guogong Yé** returned an hour ago, and Cheng **Guogong** also has left. **Da Laoyé** was..." The maid stopped midway through her sentence, realizing that Zhao Huanrong was also present. She awkwardly stopped talking and said, "In any case, **San Yé** doesn't need to worry. Please go to **Taitai**'s place first."

Zhao Huanxi breathed a sigh of relief and left Zhilan Courtyard with Xu Nian'an, bidding farewell to Zhao Huanrong. They each went back to their courtyards.

The young couple arrived at Jiaxiang House. When Yin Furen saw Zhao Huanxi's face, which was swollen and bruised, she almost burst into tears.

"What happened? Does it hurt? That damn man! My son has been beaten like this, yet he's only concerned about helping others vent. He deserves to be scolded by **Gongdiē**!" Yin Furen supported Zhao Huanxi, wanting to touch his face but hesitating. She asked Xu Nian'an, "Have you applied medicine?"

Xu Nian'an said, "Mother, rest assured, he has applied medicine."

Zhao Huanxi proudly said, "Mom, don't be upset for me. Zhu Zhifu was hurt much worse than me. His head was smashed and bleeding heavily!"

"You child! How could you not be afraid?" Yin Furen scolded, hitting his arm lightly, then caressed it, wiping the corner of her eye with a handkerchief. "Go to Dunyi Hall. Your **Zufu** is waiting for you."

Zhao Huanxi was taken aback and instinctively looked at Xu Nian'an.

Yin Furen added, "**Zufu** wants to see you alone."

Zhao Huanxi felt nervous.

"Don't be afraid, it's not your fault. If **Zufu** asks if you know you were wrong, just say you were wrong to fight in the Imperial Academy, and don't admit anything else," Xu Nian'an advised him.

With a bit more confidence, Zhao Huanxi headed to Dunyi Hall.

Yin Furen watched his back worriedly and asked Xu Nian'an, "Will this be okay?"

Xu Nian'an smiled gently and answered indirectly, "**Zufu** will make the decision for **Sanlang**."

Zhao Huanxi arrived at Dunyi Hall just as **Guogong Yé** was about to eat. Upon hearing that Zhao Huanxi had arrived, he went to the study.

"Kneel down." In the study, as soon as Zhao Huanxi paid his respects, **Guogong Yé** said coldly.

Zhao Huanxi knelt down with a thud, his heart pounding uncontrollably in his chest.

"Tell me exactly what happened today."

Listening to his grandfather’s stern voice, Zhao Huanxi's mind was blank as usual. But he quickly realized he shouldn't implicate others, especially Xu Nian'an, so he organized his words with struggle.

"Replying to **Zufu**, yesterday when I reported to the Imperial Academy, Zhu Zhifu deliberately wiped his snot on my desk, and I had a few words about it with him. At noon, when I came out of the dining hall, he threw an egg at my head. The supervisor asked him to apologize to me, but he ignored it. I was angry, so last night after returning home, I had a servant find two rotten eggs. Today at lunch in the cafeteria, I threw both rotten eggs at him. He rushed to hit me, and I fought back, and... and I hit his head and it bled."

**Guogong Yé** looked at his legitimate eldest grandson, who was bowing his head, his voice revealing neither anger nor joy. "Do you know where you went wrong?"

Zhao Huanxi replied honestly, "**Sun’er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this grandson"></sup> knows he was wrong."

"Where did you go wrong?"

"I was wrong to fight with someone in the Imperial Academy."

"If it happens again?"

"If it happens again..." Zhao Huanxi remembered Xu Nian'an's sudden hug in the room, the choked-up "thank you," and felt extremely uncomfortable.

How much resentment and helplessness does it take to make her, a woman who seems capable of anything in his eyes, show such an expression?

As long as it's Zhu Zhifu, no matter how many times, he won't back down. He'll beat him into a pig-headed fool!

"If there is a next time, I still dare to do it!" He raised his head abruptly, shouting without considering the consequences.

Then he saw his grandfather, who had been serious, suddenly laughing!

"Well done, young man, get up!" **Guogong Yé** walked over, slapped Zhao Huanxi's shoulder as he stood up, and laughed heartily. "This is the descendant of our Zhao family! Who is the Zhu family? They're not even worthy of carrying shoes for our Zhao family! You've hit him, so what can he do?"

Zhao Huanxi staggered from the slap, wanting to grimace but not daring to: his grandfather's slap hurt more than Zhu Zhifu's punch.

**Guogong Yé** frowned when he saw his grandson stagger from his slap, then patted him twice more, saying, "Your body is too weak, not strong enough."

Although Zhao Huanxi felt extremely distressed right now, he still remembered the plan he had discussed with Zhao Huanrong in the afternoon. He hurriedly said, "**Zufu**, today's events have made me realize that as a man, it's inconvenient not to know martial arts. One wonders if **Zufu** could find a master to teach me some martial arts?"

"As long as you're willing to learn, we can find as many masters as you need," **Guogong Yé** said in a very good mood.

"**Sun’er** wants to learn," Zhao Huanxi replied.

"Then I'll find one for you."

"Thank you, **Zufu**."
<br>

At Jiaxiang House, the meal was already served, but Zhao Huanxi had yet to return.

"Why hasn't he come back yet? Could something have happened?" Yin Furen paced anxiously in the corridor. When she looked up and saw Xu Nian'an standing leisurely nearby, she felt a bit dissatisfied and puzzled. "You don't seem worried at all?"

"What is there to worry about? **Zufu** is a reasonable person, and **Sanlang** hasn't done anything wrong. Why would **Zufu** punish him?" Xu Nian'an replied.

Just as Yin Furen was about to say something, a maid entered the courtyard with a delighted expression. "**Taitai**, don't need to wait for **San Yé** to come back for dinner. **Guogong Yé** kept him at Dunyi Hall for dinner."

Yin Furen was momentarily incredulous, but then she was overjoyed. She waved off the maid and turned to Xu Nian'an. "In that case, let's go and have our meal. There's no need to wait for him."
