---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 48"
snippet: "I’ll accompany you to reclaim the Lǚyun Pavilion for Xu Ge’er!”"
order: 48
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Yin Furen and Xu Nian'an came out to greet them. Inside, Zhao Jiaxian was wearing a light blue cross-necked long dress, with a blue embroidered jacket over it, smiling. Dongxiang supported her, Nanny Xian held an umbrella for her as she walked blushing from the courtyard gate.

Yin Furen, seeing her looking healthy and rosy, felt relieved. She walked up to her, took her hand, and said as they walked into the house, "On such a hot day, what important matter brings you here in person? Look, your face is all red."

When they arrived inside, Zhao Jiaxian and Xu Nian'an exchanged greetings before Zhao Jiaxian said, "I heard that **San Di** was injured in a fight with that dandy from the Zhu family. I've been wanting to come see him early on, but I was busy with family matters in the past few days. How is **San Di**? Is it serious?"

Zhao Huanxi has been "recuperating" at home these past few days. **Er Jie**, **San Jie**, and some other families with close ties to the Zhao family have sent people to visit, and Yin Furen has received a wave of gifts.

Yin Furen frowned and said, "Didn't I have someone send you a message early on, saying that your **San Di** was not seriously injured and there was no need to worry?"

Zhao Jiaxian replied, "How would I know that you weren't just saying that to avoid worrying me?"

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "It's true, he's fine. He was up early today practicing martial arts with his master for half an hour, and then he went to school."

Zhao Jiaxian widened her eyes in surprise, covered her mouth, and chuckled, "Practicing martial arts? It's only been a few days, and my **San Di** has changed completely." She looked gratefully at Xu Nian'an and said, "He's getting better and better."

Unable to contain her curiosity, Yin Furen asked Zhao Jiaxian, "Earlier you mentioned that there you were busy with family matters. What happened?"

Zhao Jiaxian didn't beat around the bush and, seeing no idle maids in the room, whispered, "Remember that one of my mother-in-law's relative from maiden family is a wealthy merchant? In recent years, that merchant has been preparing to expand his business toward the capital, and he spent a huge sum of money to buy a summer villa in the outskirts of the city. It's said to have mountains and springs with pleasant scenery, and he invited my mother-in-law's maiden family to stay there for a short summer break. My mother-in-law's biological mother dotes on her daughter, so she sent a letter asking if my mother-in-law has the time to bring her children along to stay there for a few days."

"It's probably because Cheng **Lang** informed Zheng **Shi** about this, and she insisted on going. Knowing that my mother-in-law wouldn't easily agree, he went to plead with **Lao Taitai**. But ever since **Di Mei** went to the Wu Residence last time, **Lao Taitai** hasn't been paying much attention to our branch's affairs. She just said they were my mother-in-law's relatives and told Cheng **Lang** to ask my mother-in-law."

"Mother-in-law said it was optional to go or not. If I wanted to go, then go, but if not, then nobody should go. Cheng **Lang** came to plead with me again, saying a lot of nice things. But I refused to go. There are mountains and springs, so there's bound to be climbing and hiking. What if something unexpected happens? Since I couldn't argue my way out, I pretended to have a stomach ache. Mother-in-law scolded Cheng **Lang** severely and told him not to bother me. She only let **Da Gujie** and **Er Gujie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Gujie means husband's older sister."></sup> go to the summer mountain villa. None on our side are going. Zheng **Shi** was so angry in her room that she lost her temper. Mother-in-law heard about it and scolded Cheng **Lang** again."

Yin Furen, feeling relieved, comforted her, saying, "Fortunately, this mother-in-law of yours is reasonable and stands by you."

Zhao Jiaxian nodded and then turned to Xu Nian'an, saying, "**Di Mei**, this time I came back, because there is something related to your family that I need to discuss."

"Related to my family? What is it?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"Do you still have a younger sister in your family who is unmarried?"

Xu Nian'an and Yin Furen looked at each other, and Yin Furen said, "I'm afraid your **Si Gujie** has come to propose a marriage alliance for your younger sister."

Xu Nian'an said, "My **Wu Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th younger sister."></sup> is only fourteen years old and has not yet found a match. Could it be that **Si Jiejie** has come to propose a marriage alliance for my sister?"

Zhao Jiaxian smiled and said, "Exactly. Last time **Di Mei** came to visit me at the Wu residence, **Di Mei** hit it off with my mother-in-law. She then inquired about **Di Mei**'s family and learned that there is another legitimate daughter who seems to be unmarried. Coincidentally, my mother-in-law's nephew, surnamed He and named Xuning, is just nineteen years old, and his father is currently serving as a supervisor in the Ministry of Revenue. Although his official position is a bit low, my mother-in-law's nephew is quite studious and is currently working hard at the Canglan Academy. When my mother-in-law mentioned this to her maiden family, **Lao Taitai** (of the maiden family) called Ning **Ge'er** over for a chat. Ning **Ge'er** said that although he is not in the same year as your brother, he knows of him and considers him a top student at the academy, on par with Lu Family's **Gongzi**. Upon hearing this, **Lao Taitai** was immediately interested. Knowing that **Di Mei**'s mother is ill, my mother-in-law asked me to come back and find out **Di Mei**'s thoughts."

"This..." Xu Nian'an had indeed instructed Xu Moxiu to find a suitable husband for Hui'an at the Canglan Academy. However, this sudden proposal, with no prior knowledge, left her unsure for a moment.

Seeing her concerns, Yin Furen asked on her behalf, "Have you ever met this nephew of your mother-in-law?"

Zhao Jiaxian nodded and said, "I've met him a few times. He's tall, fair-skinned, and polite. I don't know much else about him. But if **Di Mei** wants more detailed information, it's easy. Just write a letter to your brother. They are both studying at the same academy, so they see each other often."

Yin Furen then said to Xu Nian'an, "If that's the case, it might be a good idea to have your brother find out more. As long as the other party's character is good, it could be a good match."

Xu Nian'an said, "Since **Si Jiejie** went out of her way for it, it's surely a good match. However, our family's situation…"

Zhao Jiaxian hurriedly said, "Since my mother-in-law has inquired about it, she must have told He Family's **Lao Taitai** everything. Marriage is about the future, not the past. Although **Di Mei**'s family may lack a father figure, your brother is a promising young man. Moreover, you are the legitimate eldest granddaughter-in-law of our Jing Guogong Residence. This marriage alliance with the He family is a good match."

Xu Nian'an thought in her heart: That's exactly the problem. I plan to divorce Zhao Huanxi in the future.

But it's hard to refuse such a generous offer, so Xu Nian'an reluctantly agreed for now. She said she would talk to her brother first and then give Zhao Jiaxian a reply.

Yin Furen asked another question, "You mentioned earlier about being on par with Lu Family's **Gongzi**. Which **Gongzi** is that?"

Zhao Jiaxian said, "It's Lu Feng, the son of Lu **Shilang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="director or vice-minister of a ministry."></sup>, **Zufu**'s close friend. He is engaged to Shuxian **Tangmei** from the Fifth Branch."

Yin Furen's expression soured slightly, showing some displeasure.

Zhao Jiaxian and Xu Nian'an knew that Yin Furen was being petty and couldn't stand to see Zhao Shuxian marry well, so they couldn't help but smile at each other.

Yin Furen kept Zhao Jiaxian for dinner before letting her go. She then asked Xu Nian'an, "Has the Lǚyun Pavilion been set up?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "Yesterday, I had the servants clean all the pavilions and halls. Today, I will go and arrange the decorations."

Yin Furen nodded and said, "The weather is getting hotter. Finish the arrangements soon so you can move there early."

Xu Nian'an returned to the Shenhui Courtyard, pondered for a moment, and instructed Songyun, "Have the maids move the cool mats, jade pillows, canopy, and other items that Furen said to throw away two days ago to the Lǚyun Pavilion and arrange them. Also, move some of the books that **San Yé** doesn't read over there."

Songyun didn't understand but still followed the orders, leading the maids to busy themselves. Xu Nian'an went to her room to rest.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In Sifang, Zhao Shutong was lying on her stomach on a cool mat<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="凉席-bamboo or straw mat used as bedding to keep cool during summer"></sup>, her head resting on a jade pillow, lost in melancholy thoughts, almost drifting off to sleep. Suddenly, a fragrant scent of gardenia wafted over, and a gardenia flower (or cape jasmine) landed on her bed.

She looked up to see Zhao Shuxian holding a round fan to shield herself from the sun, standing outside the window, smiling at her and saked, "My mother went to talk to your mother about your marriage. Are you going to go and listen?"

Zhao Shutong blushed and turned her face away and said, "How can I listen to such matters?" 

"It's hot, and the maids and servants are all resting lazily. It's the perfect time to eavesdrop," Zhao Shuxian teased.

Zhao Shutong ignored her.

"If you don't go, shall I go then? If there's any bad news, don't blame me for keeping it from you," Zhao Shuxian chuckled and ran off.

"Ei? You—" Zhao Shutong called out, but Zhao Shuxian was already gone. After sitting quietly for a moment, unable to contain her curiosity, Zhao Shutong put on her shoes and discreetly made her way to her mother's bedroom window, where she joined Zhao Shuxian.

She arrived not too late. It seemed that **Wu Taitai** and her mother had just exchanged pleasantries and were getting to the main topic.

"... It's really unbearable. In just a few days, such a big problem has arisen!" **Wu Taitai** said angrily.

"This, how could this happen? After you talked to your **Biaomei**, didn't she discuss it with her mother-in-law?" **Si Taitai** seemed startled, stuttering as she spoke.

"My **Biaomei**'s idea was to wait until they had met and both sides were satisfied, then finalize the matter and inform her mother-in-law. Who would have thought that Wu Furen, a married elder sister, would intervene and meddle in her nephew's marriage? He Family's **Lao Taita** favors her daughter, so when Wu Furen praised the Xu Family's little lady, He Family's **Lao Taitai** ordered my **Biaomei** to go and see the Xu Family's little lady."

"This is absurd! No matter what, my Tong'er is still a **Xiaojie** from a Guogong Residence. How could she be inferior to the daughter of a fallen household?" **Si Taitai** said angrily.

"It seems to me that Wu Furen is causing trouble in the middle. It's not enough that her son married the First Branch's daughter; she also wants to pull her maiden family to the First Branch's side. But you don't have to lose heart too soon. My **Biaomei** told me that no matter what, she is the birth mother of my *Wai* nephew<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="son of a sister (in this case, a Biao cousin)."></sup>, so even if He Family's **Lao Taitai** interferes, it shouldn't be too difficult for her to ruin this marriage for her son," **Wu Taitai** said.

**Si Taitai** quickly said, "Please, you must keep an eye on this matter and pay close attention to it."

**Wu Taitai** agreed.

Zhao Shutong, who was eavesdropping outside the window, felt embarrassed and wanted to go back to her room. Zhao Shuxian grabbed her, looked at her closely, and whispered, "Can't stand it?"

"**Tangjie**, don't linger here. We might get caught." Zhao Shutong, not in the mood to talk, gently freed herself from Zhao Shuxian's grasp.

"Ai ai, don't be upset. Rest assured, not only will my mother help you with this matter, but I will also definitely help you. Others might be okay, but if Xu Nian'an's sister wants to compete with you for a husband, that's not acceptable!" Zhao Shuxian said.

Zhao Shutong blushed with embarrassment and said, "You stop talking!" She turned and walked away. However, just then, an old Pozi<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="middle-aged servant woman"></sup> suddenly ran into the courtyard, startling her. She hurriedly covered her face with the fan and shrank back.

"**Wu Taitai**, **Wu Taitai**!" The old Pozi called out anxiously at the door.

**Wu Taitai** came out, looking displeased. "What's the matter?"

The old Pozi said, "The people from the First Branch are cleaning up the Lǚyun Pavilion. *You* should go and take a look!"

**Wu Taitai** didn't care much. "Let them clean up. These kinds of chores should be handled by the First Branch. Once they're done, we can just move our things in."

The old Pozi exclaimed, "If they were just cleaning up the Lǚyun Pavilion as they did in previous years, why would **Laonu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this old servant."></sup> bother to disturb **Wu Taitai**? But, but they are moving the First Branch's **San Yé**'s things into the Lǚyun Pavilion!"

"What?" **Wu Taitai** was astonished. She turned to see **Si Taitai** standing nearby and said, "You see, because I was busy helping you, I didn't clean out the Lǚyun Pavilion early. Now, even my Xu'er's residence has been taken over!"

**Si Taitai**, frustrated by her daughter's marriage being obstructed, was now so enraged that she wished she could take a bite out of the First Branch. With **Wu Taitai**'s provocation, she couldn't hold back and cursed, "Those black-hearted evil creatures! Do they really think they had the final say in this Guogong Residence? Why do they have the right to take over Xu **Ge'er**'s place? Let's go, I'll accompany you to reclaim the Lǚyun Pavilion for Xu **Ge'er**!"
