---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 49"
snippet: ""
order: 49
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Songyun was leading the maidservants to arrange the bed and hang the curtains in Lǚyun Pavilion, when suddenly **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai**, accompanied by twenty or so maids and Pozis, barged in. Not only did they drive them all out, but they also threw out all the things they had brought and scattered them outside Lǚyun Pavilion in a mess.

Songyun's eyes reddened with anger, but constrained by her status as a maidservant, she dared not act rashly. She stood there and asked, "**Si Taitai**, **Wu Taitai**, us **Nubi**s were ordered by **San Nainai,, to come and tidy up **San Yé**'s place. What are *you* doing here?"

"Pah<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="spitting."></sup>!" **Si Taitai** spat in her face and cursed loudly, "That little whore, because she became the First Branch's daughter-in-law, she's getting arrogant? Can your **San Yé** stay in Lǚyun Pavilion? This is the place of Fifth Branch's Xu **Ge'er**! If you wanna become *the turtledove that occupied the magpie's nest*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="鸠占鹊巢-(idiom) refers to someone who takes over another person's home or position unfairly."></sup>, you have to ask if we agree or not?"

"You, how can you speak of our **San Nainai** like that?" Songyun looked at **Si Taitai** in astonishment.

"I've said it. What can you do about it? Go quickly and call her. Since her mother-in-law failed to teach her manners, us **Shenshen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of father's (younger) brother."></sup>s have to take over!" **Si Taitai** put her hands on her hips, turned her head, and spat on the mat on the ground.

Songyun turned around and hurried away.

She had intended to go directly to Jiaxiang House to report to Yin Furen, but upon second thought, she realized she was just a maid in Shenhui Courtyard. If she bypassed **San Nainai** and went directly to Yun Furen with the matter, **San Nainai** might have a negative opinion of her. Since **San Nainai** probably couldn't resolve this matter and would eventually have to seek Yin Furen's help, she decided to go back and inform **San Nainai** first.

Xu Nian'an was awakened by Songyun and, after hearing what had happened, she sat up in bed and said, "Go immediately to **Taitai**'s courtyard and ask her to send someone to block the path to the Zhilan Garden. Tell her not to get angry, and not to go to the Zhilan Garden to argue with **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai**. I'll freshen up and come over to see her."

Songyun then hurried to Jiaxiang House again.

Xu Nian'an got up and washed her face. Yisu handed her a towel, looked at the blindingly bright sunlight outside, and said: "In this sweltering heat, *you* still have to go out."

"Actually, what you want to say is that I still have to go out and pick a fight, right?" Xu Nian'an looked at her with a smile.

Yisu looked at Xu Nian'an with concern and said, "It's better when **Gu Yé** is at home. **Xiaojie** only needs to accompany **Gu Yé**. Since **Gu Yé** went to the Imperial Academy, there have been a lot of messy things happening."

"Being a daughter-in-law, it's unavoidable. And I'm not going to argue right now. I'm going to Furen's room to eat some chilled grapes." Xu Nian'an flicked her nose and said, "It's hot. You don't need to follow me. There are plenty of people to help on Furen's side."

She went alone with an umbrella to Jiaxiang House.

Yin Furen, after hearing Songyun's report, was so angry that she couldn't sit still. When Xu Nian'an arrived, Yin Furen immediately said, "They're already stepping all over us, and you want me to endure it? I can't endure it. I'm going to find those two shrews and settle the score!" She was about to leave.

"Mother," Xu Nian'an quickly grabbed her arm and pulled her back, saying, "Look at the sun outside. If **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai** are willing to steam outside, let them steam a little longer. Why should Mother have to go and suffer with them?"

"Don't go? Then are we just letting them take over Lǚyun Pavilion? This is unreasonable. It seems like Lǚyun Pavilion is not a place in the Guogong Residence, but rather Fifth Branch's private property." Yin Fueen, despite being pulled back by Xu Nian'an and seated on a stool, still felt indignant, waving her folding fan vigorously.

"If we have someone block them from moving the bedding, what can they use to occupy it? Sit inside and occupy it?" Xu Nian'an peeled a chilled grape for Yin Furen, but Yin Furen wasn't in the mood to eat. Xu Nian'an ate it herself.

"Even if we block them for a while, can we block them forever? In the end, if they go to report to **Guogong Yé**, wouldn't they occupy it then?" Yin Furen furrowed her brows, feeling troubled.

"What we want is for them to go and report to **Guogong Yé**," Xu Nian'an said calmly. 

Yin Furen, realizing what Xu Nian'an meant, paused her fan and turned to look at her daughter-in-law, asking, "What do you mean by that?"

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "Last night, I told **Sanlang** about Mother's request for us to move to Lǚyun Pavilion. He told me about the past conflicts between the First Branch and Fifth Branch over Lǚyun Pavilion. He also said he doesn't like living in Lǚyun Pavilion and prefers living in Yifang Garden."

Yin Furen said, "He's just a child, what does he understand? Lǚyun Pavilion is the coolest pavilion in the entire Zhilan Garden. It has been occupied by the Fifth Branch a full nine years. It's time for us First Branch to have a turn."

"Even Mother understands this clearly, *you* think, is **Guogong Yé** aware of it or not?" Xu Nian'an asked. 

Yin Furen held the folding fan against her chest, lost in thought.

While generally speaking, in households like the Guogong's, the head of the household wouldn't interfere in domestic affairs. However, **Guogong Yé**'s first wife passed away early, and afterward, his second wife, due to the death of their biological son, devoted herself to the Buddha Hall and hasn't come out for a whole ten years. Now, this eldest daughter-in-law of his manages the household affairs, and since she is of the same generation as the second, third, fourth, and fifth branches, some matters are not easy to handle and inevitably trouble **Guogong Yé**. So, **Guogong Yé** does have some understanding of the affairs in the back courtyards of the house.

"From what **Sanlang** said, back then, **Guogong Yé** did indeed give his approval for the Fifth Branch to occupy Lǚyun Pavilion. However, times have changed. At that time, it was shortly after the passing of **Wu Laoyé**, and **Guogong Yé** might have felt guilty and inclined to favor the Fifth Branch. But now, nine years have passed, and as Mother said, it's only fair that it's someone else's turn. If Mother sends someone to occupy Lǚyun Pavilion now, and Fifth Branch doesn't make a fuss and willingly gives it up, **Guogong Yé** probably won't see any problem with it. But if the First Branch and Fifth Branch start another dispute over this, would **Guogong Yé** be happy? Is it worth it for **Guogong Yé** to think that the First Branch is troublesome just for the sake of occupying Lǚyun Pavilion that **Sanlang** doesn't even want to stay in?"

Yin Furen was enlightened by Xu Nian'an's words and said, "You're right. I was too focused on past grievances and acted without considering the consequences."

"When one ponders over something for a long time, it's easy to get fixated on it. That's the case for Mother, and it's unavoidable for the Fifth Branch as well. Last night, after hearing **Sanlang**'s words, **Erxi&& didn't prepared to go and claim Lǚyun Pavilion. However, as the First Branch's daughter-in-law, **Erxi** doesn't want to see the Fifth Branch take advantage and feel justified in doing so. Lǚyun Pavilion can be given to them, but **Zufu**'s heart should be inclined towards our side."

"Have you come up with a plan?" Yin Furen, who was not angry at all by now, smiled and asked.

Xu Nian'an leaned in and asked, "Will **Zufu** be coming home for dinner today?"

Yin Furen replied, "In a few days, it will be the anniversary of Huanxi's biological **Zumu**'s death. **Guogong Yé** usually doesn't go out for banquets with friends during these days."

"This morning, **Erxi** heard from the steward that a few barrels of freshwater eel had been sent over. Mother might as well use this as an excuse to host a Linglan<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="铃兰-Lily of the valley."></sup> Feast, and let **Zufu** and the grandchildren have a good time together."

"What you mean is…."

Xu Nian'an said, "Although **Erxi** hasn't been married into this family for long, One has met with Huanxu **Tangxiong** from the Fifth Branch a few times. From what I've observed, Huanxu **Tangxiong&& is competitive. He can't stand it when **Sanlang** outshines him. If he knows about Lǚyun Pavilion, he definitely won't be willing to compromise. However, **Sanlang** is not willing to quarrel with the Fifth Branch over Lǚyun Pavilion. Mother has many children. If one child is narrow-minded, always puts his own interests first, and another child is tolerant, kind to others, and always puts family harmony first, which child would Mother prefer?"

Yin Furen understood and smiled, "Then I would prefer the latter child. In that case, when **Sanlang** returns, you should teach him what to say."

Xu Nian'an shook her head, "The kind of person **Zufu** is, how could he not tell which words are parroted and which come from the heart? Anyway, since **Sanlang** doesn't want Lǚyun Pavilion, let him speak as he pleases, as long as he is sincere. Mother doesn't need to worry. *You* have taught **Sanlang** very well."

Yin Furen felt greatly relieved by her daughter-in-law's praise and immediately went out spiritedly to instruct the servants.
<br>

In Lǚyun Pavilion, **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai** sat in the room without tea or fans, sweating profusely, their mouths dry and tongues parched from the heat.

**Si Taitai** couldn't bear it and kept walking to the outside of the room, looking around and saying, "Why haven't they come yet? Even if they crawl, they should have crawled here by now."

**Wu Taitai** was also very anxious, but she dared not leave, fearing that if she left, someone from the First Branch would come and occupy Lǚyun Pavilion. They could throw things once, but if they repeatedly threw things from the First Branch, it would be too disgraceful if it reached **Guogong Yé**'s ears.

As the sun was slanting westward, the pair of mother and daughter-in-law (from First Branch) still hadn't arrived. What was even more hateful was that the maid and servant she had sent back to move the bedding hadn't returned either.

"Go back and see what's going on. I told them to move the bedding, but they still haven't come. Where on earth are they slacking off?" **Wu Taitai** instructed the maid beside her.

**Si Taitai** walked back and said to **Wu Taitai**, "That pair of mother and daughter-in-law still haven't come. Could it be that they're feeling guilty and afraid to come? Oh, I'm so thirsty. How come there isn't even a cup of tea?"

**Wu Taitai** looked at **Si Taitai**, her makeup smeared from the heat, and felt a bit disgusted. She apologetically said, "It's all because of us Fifth Branch's affairs that have burdened **Si Sao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Sao = older brother's wife"></sup>. Why don't **Si Sao** go back first? I'll stay here to watch over things."

**Si Taitai** immediately said, "No, that won't do. Since I've taken charge of this matter, I will see it through with you!"

At this moment, a maid outside exclaimed, "They're here, they're here, someone's coming!" 

**Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai**, eager with renewed spirits, hurried to the outside of Lǚyun Pavilion. However, to their disappointment, they only saw an old Pozi from Jiaxiang House, Nanny Fu.

Nanny Fu, with a solemn expression, made a perfunctory gesture of respect to the two of them, then directed the maids from Shenhui Courtyard who were hiding in the shade of the trees, saying, "Pick up all the things on the ground. Furen said that if our **San Yé** cannot live in Lǚyun Pavilion, no one else should think about moving in. Let it stay empty like this!"

The maids came forward obediently to tidy up the things.

"Ei? What do you mean? What does **Da Taitai** mean? Explain yourself clearly!" **Si Taitai** demanded, pointing at Nanny Fu.

Nanny Fu ignored her, bowed again, and then turned around with the maids to leave, leaving **Si Taitai** fuming with anger.

"**Di Mei**, you look, if **Lao Taitai** doesn't come out soon, the First Branch will behave wildly!"

**Wu Taitai** clenched her handkerchief tightly. Just then, the maid from the Fifth Branch returned, saying, "**Taitai**, it's not good. **Da Taitai** has ordered someone to block the path, not allowing Nanny Yan and the others to bring **Er Yé**'s bedding over."

"This is too much, really too much!" **Wu Taitai** said indignantly.

**Si Taitai** added, "Inform **Guogong Yé**. We must have **Guogong Yé** intervene and make a decision for the Fifth Branch!"
<br>

In Jiaxiang House, Yin Furen and Xu Nian'an each held a cup of iced water with rock sugar, green beans, and licorice. They listened to Nanny Fu describing the appearance of **Si Taitai** and **Wu Taitai**.

"**Wu Taitai** had a large wet patch under her armpits, which was still considered okay. But **Si Taitai**'s face was a mess, with sweat on her forehead and nose, and her face powder was patchy. It looked like an old wall that had lost its paint. She was still unaware, strutting around as if showing off her power! **Taitai**, *you* didn't see it, but if one had, one would probably faint from laughing too hard."

Yin Furen laughed so much that she almost spilled the cup. She held her stomach and instructed Qianhe, "Give Nanny Fu a cup of cold water to moisten her throat."

After Nanny Fu left, Yin Furen glanced at her daughter-in-law and couldn't help but admit to herself that while she might be competent in managing the household, when it came to dealing with the disputes in the backyard, she was not as good as her daughter-in-law.

Of course, it's not entirely her fault. Before she got married, her parents were loving, and she was the favored legitimate daughter. The household was also peaceful. How could she have seen so many messy things?

And yet, her daughter-in-law, so young, handles these matters so skillfully. One wonders how difficult these past ten years must have been for her.

"Nian'an, since Lǚyun Pavilion has been given up, I plan to build a small kitchen for you and Huanxi in Yifang Garden. It's far from the main kitchen, and it's inconvenient to have meals delivered three times a day. With a small kitchen and a few cooks and maids, you can cook whatever you want and have more freedom," Yin Furen said affectionately, feeling sorry for her daughter-in-law.

Xu Nian'an thought about the hot sun in the summer and the distance from Zhilan Garden to Yifang Garden. She didn't refuse Yin Furen's kindness and smiled, saying, "Alright, thank you, Mother."
