---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 50"
snippet: "The little puppy was carried away, the mother and daughter-in-law drank wine in celebration."
order: 50
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

After **Guogong Yé** returned from the Central Army Commander’s Office, Yin Furen personally went to talk to him about organizing the Linglan Banquet in the evening. Since they are all family, it's good to gather together. **Guogong Yé** agreed.

Zhao Mingkun received the news and, steeling himself, went to **Guogong Yé** to ask if people from Zhao Huanzhao and Zhao Huanyang courtyards could also participate.

**Guogong Yé** responded calmly with a simple "Is the period of confinement over?" and shutted him up.

When Yin Furen heard about it, she couldn’t stop laughing for a while.

**Guogong Yé** has five sons. The fifth son died in battle and the second one and his son served as officials outside (this means they're not in the capital). The remaining sons, daughters-in-law, grandchildren, and unmarried granddaughters, both from legitimate and concubine-born, amount to about fifty or sixty people. The great-grandchildren are still young, so they were not invited to avoid any commotion.

The Linglan Banquet was then held in the spacious and grand Yongxi Hall.

Lanterns hung high, and the silver lamps at the four corners of the hall illuminated the hall brightly. The fragrance of flowers outside mixed with the aroma of food inside, drifting in together. **Guogong Yé** sat high at the head, looking at the bustling hall of his children and grandchildren, feeling quite pleased.

The seating was arranged according to seniority, with the closest to **Guogong Yé** naturally being **Da Laoyé** Zhao Mingkun, followed by **San Laoyé** Zhao Mingjun, and **Si Laoyé** Zhao Mingpei.

Next came the eldest legitimate grandson, the First Branch's Zhao Huanxi, followed by the Second Branch's one legitimate son and two shu sons, and Third Branch's legitimate and shu sons, and so on in this manner.

All the **Taitai**s and **Nainai**s of each branch sat in a row behind, and the unmarried granddaughters sat in a row behind the **Taitai**s.

This seating arrangement placed Zhao Huanxi very close to **Guogong Yé**, while the Fifth Branch's Zhao Huanxu was seated almost at the door. Since the Fifth Branch had no shu sons, he ended up being the one seated farthest from **Guogong Yé**.

Zhao Huanxi was in a very good mood today. Zhu Zhifu didn't go to the Imperial Academy, and other students were amazed to see that Zhao Huanxi had dealt with Zhu Zhifu yet remained unharmed. They all thought he was formidable and sought to befriend him. It was the first time he had realized he was so popular.

With a good mood, his face naturally showed a pleased expression, which Zhao Huanxu noticed. Thinking back to what his mother mentioned about Lǚyun Xuan when he returned, he couldn't help but thinking more about it, feeling increasingly angry.

After the maids and servants finished serving the dishes, the atmosphere in the hall became harmonious. After a few rounds of wine, **Guogong Yé** glanced up and saw his eldest legitimate grandson. This child was remarkably handsome, lacking any sense of timidity. Sitting there, he shone brightly like the moon, making it hard to ignore him.

**Guogong Yé** watched as he picked up a large piece of braised eel and ate it in one bite, then took a five-spice chicken leg to gnaw on, looking as if he were extremely hungry. Surprisingly, even as he showed such a voracious appetite, he didn't appear rude or unseemly. Instead, he displayed a kind of carefree and unrestrained demeanor unique to youth.

**Guogong Yé** looked amused, about to ask him how his day at the Imperial Academy was, when suddenly **Si Taitai** interjected, "Xi **Ge'er**'s wife, Lǚyun Pavilion has always been where Fifth Branch's Xu **Ge'er** stays. Why did you send maids to forcibly occupy it without even asking?"

Zhao Huanxi paused in his chicken leg gnawing and turned his head to look at where Xu Nian'an was seated.

**Si Laoyé** Zhao Mingpei frowned, thinking to himself: Why do this woman never learn? What does it matter to us if the First Branch occupies Lǚyun Pavilion from the Fifth Branch?

Xu Nian'an stood up from her seat and bowed towards **Wu Taitai**, apologizing, "**Wu Shenshen**, it's **Zhixi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of nephew"></sup>'s fault for not understanding the rules. One thought that the various pavilions in the courtyard could be lived in at will, and One didn't realize that Lǜyun Pavilion was solely for Huanxu **Tangxiong**. One apologizes for the offense and asks for **Wu Shenshen** forgiveness, and asks for Huanxu **Tangxiong** forgiveness as well."

**Si Taitai** noticed that Xu Nian'an didn't mention her at all in her apology, only speaking to **Wu Taitai**, which made her feel like she was being singled out as a busybody. This angered her, and her eyebrows raised in irritation. Just as she was thinking about stabbing her a few more times, she caught a glimpse of **Si Laoyé** glaring at her fiercely. She pursed her lips and swallowed the words she was about to say.

**Wu Taitai** put down her chopsticks, about to respond, when Yin Furen interjected, "**Wu Dimei**, Nian'an has just entered the mansion, and it was my oversight not to remind her that Lǚyun Pavilion belongs solely to your Fifth Branch. If she sent someone to clean and tidy up, you should have come directly to me to discuss it. How could you directly bring people to throw out the bedding and books, and even scold her saying she was a whore? You are the elder here, such behavior is improper."

**Guogong Yé**'s brows furrowed deeply. 

**Wu Taitai** caught a glimpse of her father-in-law's expression and hurriedly clarified for herself, "I didn't throw anything, nor did I scold her."

Yin Furen said, "That's strange then. If a dozen maidservants all say the same thing, it's unlikely that they're all lying. Since **Wu Dimei** says she didn't scold her, could it be that it was **Si Dimei** who did?"

**Wu Taitai** closed her mouth, neither confirming nor denying. 

**Si Taitai**: "I..." She wanted to deny it, but under **Guogong Yé**'s stern gaze, she didn't dare. After all, so many maidservants had heard it, and anyone could be brought forward to confront her. So, after saying "I" she fell silent.

Zhao Huanxi stood up from his seat, walked to where **Si Taitai** was sitting, and gave her a deep bow. He raised his head and said, "**Si Shenshen**, Huanxi really doesn't know where I have offended you, causing you to repeatedly trouble Nian'an because of me. If there is anything you have against me, please let me know today. I will apologize sincerely and beg for your forgiveness. I only hope that you will not trouble Nian'an again in the future."

"This... I..." The two of them had very little interaction, and they had hardly spoken a few words to each other. How could **Si Taitai** say where he had offended her? Her trouble with the First Branch was purely to flatter the Fifth Branch.

Zhao Huanxi looked at her expectantly, waiting for her response. However, she couldn't come up with any words, and everyone in the hall had their eyes on her, making her blush deeply with embarrassment.

**Guogong Yé** said disapprovingly in a deep voice, "This is downright outrageous!"

**Si Taitai** lowered her head, feeling wronged. The benefits were not hers, and she even got scolded.

"Go back to your courtyard and copy the 《Lessons For Women》 five hundred times. Don't come out until you've finished," **Guogong Yé** said.

Under everyone's gaze, **Si Taitai** was so ashamed that she almost collapsed to the ground. Zhao Shutong came over with a flushed face to help her up and led her out.

**Si Laoyé** felt annoyed but had to apologize to **Guogong Yé** on behalf of his wife, "Dad, it's all my fault..." 

**Guogong Yé** waved his hand, indicating that he didn't need to say more, and then asked Zhao Huanxi and his wife to take their seats.

After the hall quieted down, **Guogong Yé** looked towards the door and said, "Huanxu."

Zhao Huanxu stood up, "**Sun'er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="grandson"></sup> is here."

"Will you still be living in Lǚyun Pavilion this summer?"

Zhao Huanxu glanced at Zhao Huanxi, hesitated for a moment, then gritted his teeth and said, "If Huanxi likes that place, as a **Tangxiong**, **Sun'er** should naturally give way." Being only nineteen years old, he couldn't hide his emotions well. His tone and expression were very stiff. If he truly didn't care, he would have said, "Since it's a pavilion in the residence, **Sun'er** will listen to the arrangements of the elders." By saying "give way", he tacitly admitted that Lǚyun Pavilion belonged to him.

**Guogong Yé** then asked Zhao Huanxi, "Huanxi, what do you say?"

Zhao Huanxi had been angry at **Si Taitai** for scolding Xu Nian'an earlier, but now that **Zufu** had dealt with **Si Taitai**, he put the matter aside. Seeing **Zufu**'s asking question, he lifted his head with a relaxed expression and said, "A man of virtue does not take away what others like. Since Huanxu **Tangxiong** loves to live in Lǚyun Pavilion, just let him have it. I'll stay in Yifang Garden."

"Oh, Lǜyun Pavilion has a thousand green bamboo shoots. What do you have in Yifang Pavilion?" **Guogong Yé** asked again.

"There's a swing..." Zhao Huanxi paused halfway, and someone nearby chuckled softly. He realized belatedly and blushed slightly, "I don't want to play on it. What I meant was, Nian'an can play on it. Besides, Yifang Garden is close to Lan Lake, convenient for fishing."

"But they all say that Lǚyun Pavilion is the coolest place in the entire Zhilan Garden."

Hearing this, Zhao Huanxu's face turned pale.

"Even if it's cool, can it compare to the coolness of spring or autumn? There are so many cool days throughout the year. Why should I compete with Huanxu **Tangxiong** for just one or two months of coolness?" Zhao Huanxi said these words without hesitation.

**Guogong Yé**'s expression softened, and he said to him, "The Imperial Academy will have a ten-day break in a few days, right? It happens to be when I'll be resting too. How about you accompany me to Lan Lake for fishing?"
<div class="author-note">
旬假 (xúnjià): Ten-day break or Decade holiday. In ancient China, officials and students typically worked for nine days and rested on the tenth (a xún is a period of ten days).
</div>

"Forgive me, **Zufu**. **Sun'er** has already agreed to Qian Wuhui's invitation for the day after tomorrow. We've planned to go out together." Zhao Huanxi apologized.

**Guogong Yé** didn't mind and said, "Then let's do it next time."

Zhao Huanxi nodded happily: "En!"

Zhao Huanxu's face fell, and he sat back down dejectedly.

After dinner, Zhao Huanxi couldn't wait to go back and share what he had learned at the Imperial Academy with Xu Nian'an. However, before he could see his wife, **Zufu** came from behind, grabbed the back of his collar, and said, "Haven't you learned some martial arts too? Let **Zufu** see if you've made any progress, you little rascal."

"Ah? **Zufu**, I've only been learning for two days!" Zhao Huanxi exclaimed, remembering the last time he was hitted by **Zufu**. 

**Guogong Yé** didn't care and just dragged him away.

Yin Furen saw this from behind and knew that **Guogong Yé** was going to personally teach Zhao Huanxi, which made her even happier. After parting ways with the others, she, along with Xu Nian'an and the maids, headed towards Jiaxiang House. She said, "Nian'an, since Huanxi is not at Shenhui Courtyard, you don't need to rush back. Come and have a drink with me."

Xu Nian'an was surprised. "Have a drink... of wine?"

"Otherwise, what? Are we going to drink tea?" Yin Furen laughed heartily, fanning herself as she said, "When I was young, I was a carefree person, but unfortunately, things didn't go as planned later on, and my spirit was slowly worn down. Now that I finally see some hope, shouldn't we celebrate by having a drink behind closed doors? There are a few eels left. Grilled eel is better than braised. I've already ordered the kitchen to grill them, which will be perfect for our drinks."

"One is just worried that something might disturb Mother at night," Xu Nian'an said.

"Don't worry, I can hold my liquor," Yin Furen said confidently.

Xu Nian'an then went to accompany her for a drink.

The grilled eel was indeed tastier than the braised one. It was brushed with honey and chili powder, giving off a tantalizing aroma. Even Xu Nian'an, who wasn't used to spicy food, couldn't resist and ate three skewers. The plum wine was refreshing, sweet, and relieved the greasiness. Xu Nian'an was careful not to drink too much and get drunk.

But after only a few drinks, Yin Furen's cheeks were flushed, and her eyes were hazy. Holding a skewer of grilled eel, she hiccupped and said, "Why's Jin **Shi** so confident ah? She really think her son's excellence is out of this world? It's just that his father died, so she's trying to gain sympathy from **Guogong Yé**, as if my Xi **Ge'er** had a father. Xi **Ge'er**'s father, he's alive but worse than being dead, right, Nian'an?"

Qianhe, who had been serving them ice for the wine, looked up in astonishment at Yin Furen, then at Xu Nian'an. 

Xu Nian'an: Can't go on without getting drunk! 

She immediately propped her elbow on the table, tilted her face, squinted, and chuckled foolishly, saying, "Yes, yes, *you*'re right about everything."

Yin Furen satisfiedly patted her arm and had Qianhe pour more wine.

The mother and daughter-in-law finished a whole pot of wine. Qianhe took the opportunity to go out and get more wine, hurriedly went to find Nanny Su, who then persuaded Yin Furen to go wash up. Nanny Su also instructed the maids to help the unsteady Xu Nian'an back to Shenhui Courtyard.
