---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 52"
snippet: "The little puppy fainted and encountered danger; Dong Jiejie's heart ached for him."
order: 52
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

When Xu Nian'an returned to the Xu Residence and directed the servants to unload the fruits and vegetables brought back by Yin Furen, her fifth younger sister Xu Hui'an heard the news and greeted her happily: "**Jiejie**!"

Xu Nian'an took her arm and walked towards the residence, asking, "Where is Qi'an?"

"Isn't **Si Jiejie** about to get married? Lately, **Yiniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. concubine. The children will call their concubine-mother or their father's concubine Yiniang."></sup> has been forcing her to stay in her room and embroider the dowry, saying she needs to focus." Xu Hui'an said playfully with a smile.

Xu Nian'an turned her head and looked at her own little sister, who was as beautiful as a lotus in water. She pointed at the mosquito bite on her left cheek and said, "You didn't sleep obediently again last night, right? Your face was against the mosquito net, right?"

"**Jie**～," Xu Hui'an covered the mosquito bite with her hand, looking somewhat embarrassed at being caught.

Xu Nian'an smiled and went with her to see Zheng Furen.

Zheng Furen was fine, and there was actually nothing wrong at home. She just felt uneasy and wanted to come back to take a look.

After staying at home for about half an hour, before leaving, she instructed Xu Hui'an, "I brought back four pieces of fabric. You and Qi'an each take two. They are all summer fabrics. Don't save them. If you save them, they'll be left until next year. Hurry up and make two new outfits."

Although Xu Hui'an was young, she had suffered with her sister and her mindset had not changed. She hesitated and said, "It's not a festival, and I'm still growing. Maybe I should save them for next year."

Xu Nian'an said, "If you don't make them, will Qi'an make them alone? She's getting married soon. What's wrong with bringing a few new clothes with her?"

Xu Hui'an then said, "Alright then." She hugged Xu Nian'an's arm and smiled, revealing two dimples. "Thank you, **Zhangjie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Same meaning with Da Jie; eldest sister."></sup>."

Looking at her tranquil, beautiful, and gentle appearance, Xu Nian'an became even more determined not to easily betroth her to a family whose background or intentions were unclear. Otherwise, what would she do if she married into a place where she would suffer?

After leaving home, she went to find Qiao Nian at Yugengqiao. Just as they finished talking, the sky darkened and the wind started to blow.

Seeing the situation turning unfavorable, Xu Nian'an didn't even drink her tea. She hurriedly left and got into the carriage to go to the Imperial Academy.

In the Imperial Academy, as soon as Zhao Huanxi saw the sky darken, his face turned pale.

In this season, whenever it rains, there is always thunder.

Qian Ming was joking around with others. When he turned around, he saw Zhao Huanxi looking pale and staring outside. He nudged him with his elbow and asked, "What's wrong? Why do you look so bad?"

"I'm not feeling well. I'll go home first. Could I trouble Qian **Xiong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. (older) brother. Adding this after a friend's surname is a brotherly way to address the friend."></sup> to inform Feng **Boshi** on my behalf?" Without even tidying up his things, he stood up and ran straight out.

The summer rain came quickly. Just as he ran to the gate of the Imperial Academy, large raindrops began to fall heavily. However, Zhiyi wasn't always waiting for him outside the gate every day.

With his heart pounding like a drum, Zhao Huanxi felt lost. Seeing pedestrians scattering to avoid the rain on the street, he ran along the street towards the direction of the Jing Guogong Residence.

Just as he ran a few steps, a loud thunderclap sounded from the sky. A thick bolt of lightning danced across half the sky, giving him the feeling as if it had struck directly above his head.

Zhao Huanxi's mind went blank, and he fainted without a sound.

In the speeding carriage towards the Imperial Academy, Xu Nian'an was also extremely anxious, listening to the thunder outside. She didn't know if Yin Furen had sent someone to pick up Zhao Huanxi, and she didn't know how Zhao Huanxi was at the moment.

As soon as she arrived at the gate of the Imperial Academy, she got out of the carriage, and the carriage sent by Yin Furen arrived behind her. Zhiyi and Zhi'er jumped down from the carriage.

Xu Nian'an then ordered the two of them to hurry into the Imperial Academy to pick up Zhao Huanxi.

In no time, the two of them came back drenched, saying, "**San Nainai**, Qian **Shaoye**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="young master"></sup> and the others said that **San Yé** left before it started raining, saying he wasn't feeling well and wanted to go home."

"Did you see him on your way here?" Xu Nian'an asked anxiously.

Both shook their heads.

With the rain pouring heavily and the continuous rolling thunder in her ears, Xu Nian'an was extremely anxious. She said, "Go to the shops on both sides and ask if anyone has seen **San Yé**."

Zhiyi saw her get out of the carriage in the rain and walked towards the shops on the right side of the street. He hurried to the carriage to get an umbrella to hold over her.

After asking several shops in a row, they finally found a stationery shop where a shop assistant said that when it started raining, he saw a young man of the described age and attire fainting in the middle of the road. Later, he was carried by a man into a nearby alley.

Xu Nian'an was shocked and hurriedly led Zhiyi and Zhi'er to the alley the shop assistant had mentioned.

The alley was not deep, and it soon extended in two directions. Xu Nian'an asked Zhiyi and Zhi'er to split up and search. She and Zhiyi turned a corner not far away and soon found Zhao Huanxi.

He had been stripped of his outer robe and boots, and his hairpins and hair ornaments were missing. His handsome face was pale to the point of translucency under the rain, and his long hair was scattered as he lay in the dirty water, completely soaked.

"**San Yé**!" Zhiyi exclaimed in shock, rushing forward to help him up.

He lay limp and unconscious in Zhiyi's arms, his long neck tilting backward weakly.

Seeing him like this, Xu Nian'an felt as if a knife had suddenly stabbed her heart. She controlled her trembling heartbeat and the bitterness in her eyes, instructing Zhiyi and Zhi'er, who had come over at the sound, "Quickly, carry him back to the carriage."

Zhao Huanxi was carried back to the carriage. After Zhiyi and Zhi'er got off, Xu Nian'an quickly checked his clothes.

Thankfully, he was unharmed. He had only been robbed of his belongings and clothes.

After confirming this, Xu Nian'an almost let out a big sigh of relief, feeling weak in the limbs. There were spare clothes for Zhao Huanxi in the carriage. Xu Nian'an instructed the coachman to drive slowly and let the unconscious Zhao Huanxi sit in the corner of the carriage. She then reached out and took off his soaked clothes.

The young man was slender, and his two delicate collarbones were beautifully defined. His fair skin was marked with bruises. It seemed that he had suffered quite a bit from practicing martial arts these past few days, but he came back (from practicing) without saying a word.

Xu Nian'an lowered her eyes and didn't look much, fumbling to put the outer robe on him. Then, she pulled him over, one hand around his back, letting him lean on her shoulder.

His wet hair was sticking to her neck, which was uncomfortable, but she had no time to care.

When she found him in the alley, she was really scared, and she still feels frightened now.

She always thought that once she had trained him well, she would divorce him and leave, but she never thought about how people have feelings. Would she really be able to divorce him so decisively and leave so casually after three years?
<br><br>


Back at the mansion, it was naturally another scene of busyness. After changing him into dry clothes and laying him on the bed, she instructed someone to fetch a doctor. Only then did the room quiet down.

Yin Furen blamed herself so much, wiping away tears as she said, "It's all my fault. Someone should have been waiting for him outside the Imperial Academy."

"**Erxi** also bears responsibility for not considering it thoroughly." The rain in summer came unexpectedly. They should have instructed people waiting outside the Imperial Academy all day.

After Yin Furen's emotions gradually stabilized, Xu Nian'an said, "Mother, **Sanlang**'s illness cannot be neglected. Fortunately, he was not harmed today. However, he may not be so lucky next time."

On this issue, the mother and daughter-in-law had discussed it before but hadn't come up with a solution. Seeing Xu Nian'an bring it up again, Yin Furen, with her eyes red and swollen, looked at her and asked, "Do you have any ideas?"

Xu Nian'an nodded. "Since Mother told me about the cause of **Sanlang**'s illness last time, I've been thinking. There are mainly two factors that may have caused his illness: one is thunder and lightning, and the other is the death of Zhisi caused by lightning. We can't control the rain and thunder, so we can only start from the other factor."

Yin Furen sighed and said, "I have also thought about this. Huanxi feels guilty for accidentally causing Zhisi's death, and he always carries that guilt in his heart. That's why I have been providing an *ever-burning lamp* for that child Zhisi at the Zhaohe Temple outside the city. I have also provided for Zhisi's parents, and the whole family is doing well. But... for Huanxi, these gestures are not enough."
<div class="author-note">
长明灯-altar lamp that is kept burning day and night; Eternal Lamp: to illuminate the path of the deceased and drive away darkness with light.
</div>

Xu Nian'an glanced at Zhao Huanxi on the bed. Although she knew he was still unconscious, she still pulled Yin Furen's sleeve and whispered, "These gestures are not enough because they are not directly related to Zhisi. Mother, do you still remember what Zhisi looked like?"

Yin Furen nodded, but she was also puzzled. "What do you want to do?"

"In order to treat **Sanlang**'s illness, please have someone find a child with a similar appearance and age to Zhisi. The world is so big, there must be someone who looks similar. If we find such a child, we don't need to disturb him if he is living well. If he is not living well, we can help him a bit. When he is living well, we can use the idea of reincarnation to say that the child is Zhisi reincarnated and take **Sanlang** to see him. I think this method might work," Xu Nian'an said.

Yin Furen listened and murmured, "In Huanxi's memory, Zhisi is dead, and this is the hurdle he can't get over. We have to let him see that Zhisi has been reincarnated, is alive, and is doing well." Her eyes lit up, and she said to Xu Nian'an, "Your idea is very good. It will definitely work. I will have someone draw a portrait and look for the child!"

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Because of the shock and the rain, Zhao Huanxi developed a fever in the afternoon, which kept Yin Furen busy. He had plans to go out with Qian Ming the next day, but of course, he couldn't go. Qian Ming came to the residence to visit him specially.

Upon hearing the news, the Fifth Branch was naturally delighted. Zhao Huanxi was still the same as two years ago. As long as he went to study at the Imperial Academy, he would fall ill after just a few days. After he got sick, he would stop going.

But this time, they were wrong. Zhao Huanxi went back to school after recovering from his illness.

The morning after he recovered, Zhao Huanxi practiced martial arts, washed up, and had breakfast. His cheeks had a hint of rosy color as he lowered his head to look at Xu Nian'an, who was tidying his belt.

He felt it was necessary to explain to her. Last time, he got sick because of the thunder, and she didn't ask him about it afterward. But this time, he fainted outside... Although he didn't want her to know about this peculiar illness of his, since it had already happened, it wouldn't be right to keep silent.

"Dong **Jiejie**, I..." He started awkwardly, unsure of how to continue.

"En?" Xu Nian'an looked up at him, smiling. "What's wrong? Embarrassed to admit that you're afraid of thunder?"

Zhao Huanxi was stunned.

Xu Nian'an lowered her head again and tied a very, very small pouch next to the big pouch containing silver notes around his waist. She said, "What's there to be embarrassed about admitting? There are many people in the world who are afraid of this and that. I'm even afraid of centipedes. If you catch a centipede and put it on me now, I'll immediately faint like you did."

Zhao Huanxi couldn't help but smile, and all the shameful worries in his heart disappeared. He lowered his head and saw the small pouch, curiously asking, "What is this?"

"Inside this are the protective talismans my mother prayed for us siblings. I'm giving it to you." She gently stroked his clothes and looked up at him, saying, "From now on, Zhiyi and Zhi'er will wait for you outside the Imperial Academy every day. If anything happens, just come out. Don't be afraid, this talisman will protect you."

Zhao Huanxi reached out and held the small, delicate pouch, then looked up at her. "If you're giving this to me, what about you?"

"I'm here in this residence every day. What could go wrong? Jing Guogong Residence is my protective talisman. Alright, don't delay. Be careful not to be late." 

Xu Nian'an escorted him to the gate as usual.

Zhao Huanxi got on the carriage. After he couldn't see Xu Nian'an anymore from the window, he sat back, picked up the small pouch containing the protective talisman, and looked at it carefully. He felt reassured as never before.
