---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 58"
snippet: "After the tutoring session ended, Dong Jiejie shooed the 'little puppy' out the door."
order: 58
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The two of them chatted as they walked, and when they arrived at Yifang Garden, Xu Moxiu felt that Zhao Huanxi was already fine. However, when Zhao Huanxi went to wash his hands, Xu Nian'an suddenly turned to him with a stern expression and said, "Are you being mean to him again?"

Xu Moxiu hurriedly said, "I didn't". 

"If you really didn't, you should ask me 'why do you say that' instead of denying it so hastily," Xu Nian'an replied calmly.

Xu Moxiu looked at his elder sister and wanted to ask her about what Zhao Huanxi had told him. However, he realized that what difference would it make even if he asked? Could he make decisions for her at this moment? Asking would only reopen old wounds.

He clenched his fists under the table, forcibly suppressed his emotions, and said, "Don't worry, since you've asked me to come, I will take good care of him."

The three of them had dinner together, and after that, Xu Moxiu followed Zhao Huanxi to his study. Xu Nian'an ordered someone to bring tea and snacks to them and then sat on the swing in the courtyard, sewing.

In less than half an hour, Xu Moxiu came out. 

Xu Nian'an was surprised, "So soon?"

Xu Moxiu nodded. "He organized the questions well, and he's not particularly slow-witted. The explanation went on quickly. I gave him a few problems to work on."

Xu Nian'an placed the unfinished sewing on the swing and stood up. "Let's go for a walk."

Xu Moxiu nodded, knowing that she wanted to discuss their youngest sister's marriage.

Xu Nian'an and Xu Moxiu left the courtyard together, and walked to the Plum Mountain that stretches between Lan Lake and Yifang Garden. She carried a lantern and didn't let the maidservant follow them.

She hung the lantern on a plum tree and asked Xu Moxiu, "How is the situation with He **Gongzi** that you were inquiring about?"

Xu Moxiu smiled bitterly. "Having been with Lu **Xiong** for so long, it's hard to think highly of others."

Xu Nian'an said, "Don't talk about these useless things. Lu **Gongzi** is already engaged. Even without an engagement, he's not someone we can reach. Just talk about that He **Gongzi**."

"He doesn't have any major issues, and his academic performance is decent. It's just that he seems to lack decisiveness and is easily influenced by others' opinions," Xu Moxiu said.

Xu Nian'an frowned. "Since there are no major issues with him, I'm afraid we'll have to meet him at least once. After all, it's also about giving face to my **Si Gujie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's (4th) older sister"></sup> and mother-in-law."

She pondered for a moment and said, "There's no point in dragging this out. How about next ten-day break, you take Hui'an to meet this He **Gongzi**? Since you say he lacks decisiveness, his family probably won't let him come alone. Pay special attention to observing his mother. Usually, a son who lacks decisiveness has a very decisive mother."

Xu Moxiu couldn't help but say, "Like Zhao Huanxi?"

Xu Nian'an gave him a sideways glance and said, "If he had a mother like Yin Furen, I might agree to let Hui'an marry him." She sighed softly. "My mother-in-law is a good one."

Xu Moxiu didn't want to discuss this issue with her as he found it troubling. He said, "Let's do it next ten-day break then... How about we arrange to meet at Zhaohua Temple? If things don't work out, we can just say we happened to meet while offering incense, which won't damage both families' reputations."

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment and agreed, nodding. "Okay." 

Zhao Huanxi finished the questions Xu Moxiu had assigned him, came out, and didn't see anyone.

"Xiaowei, where's **San Nainai** and my **Xiao Jiuzi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife's younger brother. "></sup>?" he asked.

"**San Nainai** and Xu **Gongzi** went out with a lantern," Xiaowei replied.

Zhao Huanxi looked blankly at the courtyard gate, hesitated for a moment, but in the end, he didn't go out to look for them. Instead, he slowly walked to the rose arbor and sat on the swing.

In previous years, he used to come here alone to spend the summer, and it didn't feel like anything special. But now…

He turned his head to look at the unfinished sewing on the other half of the swing, feeling deeply lonely and reluctant. 

He couldn't let Dong **Jiejie** leave him, nor could he let Wenlin take her away. 

What should he do?

Xu Nian'an and Xu Moxiu returned, and as soon as they looked up, they saw Zhao Huanxi sitting on the swing, motionless and lost in thought.

Xu Nian'an was about to go over and call him when she saw him suddenly lift his head, jump off the swing, and then notice her and Xu Moxiu.

He was momentarily stunned, then smiled slightly, feeling a bit embarrassed. He walked up to them and said, "You guys are back. Wenlin, I've finished the questions you assigned me." 

Xu Moxiu replied, "Let's talk in the study."

The two of them stayed in the study until very late. It was not until Xu Nian'an sent someone to urge them that they finally put away their writing materials.

Seeing Xu Moxiu about to leave, Zhao Huanxi called out to him, "Wenlin, I've figured out how to protect my mother and Nian'an in the future."

Xu Moxiu turned back to look at him.

"I'm going to take the imperial examination, become an official, and request a position away from home, taking my mother and Nian'an with me. This way, my father won't be able to make things difficult for us," Zhao Huanxi said seriously.

Xu Moxiu looked at the handsome young man illuminated by the lamp and nodded after a moment of silence. "It's great that you have such aspirations. If you ever have any academic problems in the future, feel free to write to me. If I can't help, I can consult the teachers for you."
<br>

With a clear direction in mind, Zhao Huanxi woke up the next day in a good mood.

Today, he was going out to leisurely roam around with his classmates, so Xu Nian'an picked out a narrow-sleeved brocade robe in snow green for him. She hung a purse, a jade pendant, an amulet, and two braided cords she made for him on his belt, one on each side.

As he was putting on the *headcrown*, Zhao Huanxi watched as Xu Nian'an picked through his collection of more than ten golden jade crowns. In the end, she chose a delicately shaped gold crown with floral and bird patterns for him to wear.
<div class="author-note">
Guan (冠), literally translated as hat or cap or crown in English, is a general term which refers to a type of headwear in Hanfu which covers a small area of the upper part of the head instead of the entire head.
</div>

"Didn't you say that dressing too nicely when going out could make us targets for robbery? Why are you dressing me so nicely today?" he asked playfully.

"Didn't you say that someone else is treating you today?" Xu Nian'an, busy with her hands, replied without looking up.

Zhao Huanxi stared blankly: "......"

After Xu Nian'an finished dressing him up, she looked up and saw his expression, couldn't help but chuckle. "I was just kidding. When we go out shopping on our own, it's better to be frugal, but when we're with friends, we should still maintain a certain level of appearance."

"Do you have anything you want? I'll bring it back for you," Zhao Huanxi looked at the person in front of him with gentle eyes.

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment, then smiled and said, "Then see if there's anything delicious and easy to carry. Bring some back, and we'll have dinner at Mother's tonight." 

Zhao Huanxi agreed.

Xu Nian'an was also wearing a new outfit today, with a color similar to Zhao Huanxi's new clothes, a light purple embroidered with lotus flowers. She wore a newly made pearl headdress, with pearls the size of longan seeds shining brightly on her dark and fluffy hair bun, exuding a graceful and luxurious aura.

When the two walked out of the room together, the young maids waiting outside were all stunned.

Truly a pair of unparalleled elegance and talent, the Golden Boy and the Jade Maiden!
<div class="author-note">
风华绝代.(Fenghua Juedai) - "unrivaled elegance and talent". "Fenghua" refers to one's charm and talent, and "juedai" indicates peerless or unparalleled status in the world. Together, it conveys the idea of having unmatched elegance and talent, standing out as the best of the time.<br><br>
金童玉女(Jīn tóng yù nǚ) - originally referred to the immortal boys and girls who served the immortals in Daoism. Later, it came to refer more broadly to innocent and pure-hearted boys and girls or (of a couple who are in the public eye) a lovely young couple.
</div>

Xu Moxiu had already gotten up and was admiring the flowers in the courtyard. When he turned around and saw Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi, he was also stunned for a moment.

Apart from other things, Zhao Huanxi's appearance was indeed the best Xu Moxiu had seen in the capital. If only he could stand up straight as well.

"Ah Xiu, Huanxi and I are going to greet **Zumu**. We didn't have time for breakfast, so after greeting her, we'll have breakfast in my mother-in-law's courtyard. You go have your breakfast and then go back. I've already had Mingli prepare the carriage at the back door. He'll take you out later," Xu Nian'an said as she approached Xu Moxiu.

Xu Moxiu nodded. "I understand." 

Zhao Huanxi, feeling a bit reluctant (to part), said,"Wenlin, when will you come next time?"

Xu Moxiu said, "You write to me, and I will come." 

Zhao Huanxi happily said, "Then I will write to you often." 

Xu Moxiu replied, "...I'll come when I have time." 

Zhao Huanxi: "......"

Xu Nian'an, fearing they might be late, urged Zhao Huanxi to leave the courtyard. She had the maids go ahead and walked behind with Zhao Huanxi. As they walked, she reminded him, "Today is your first time going out alone to play with friends. There are a few things you need to remember.

"The first thing is about food. Don't be adventurous and eat anything raw, strange, or unfamiliar. It could cause mild diarrhea or even illness. Also, don't drink untreated water, no matter how thirsty you are. You can drink alcohol, but don't get drunk. If everyone is eating something, you can eat it too. But if something is only offered to you, don't eat it. Remember, you should be cautious of others' intentions but must have no intention of harming others. Got it?" 

Zhao Huanxi nodded.

"The second thing is to stay away from women. If you meet someone you like, find out their name and background, then come back and tell me. I'll consider whether to bring her into this household. Absolutely do not have any intimate contact with women outside. If someone gets pregnant and claims it's yours, it will be a tricky situation, just like with Zheng Man'er. It will cause a lot of trouble."

Zhao Huanxi hesitated for a moment as he turned to her. 

Xu Nian'an took another step forward before realizing he had stopped, so she stopped and looked back at him, asking, "Why did you stop?"

Zhao Huanxi wanted to express his feelings, but he thought that she might not want to hear them since she didn't have him in her heart. He felt that saying anything would only add to her troubles. So, he held back his words and replied in a dull tone, "I understand."

The two continued walking, and Xu Nian'an continued, "Thirdly, don't meddle in other people's business. No matter what happens, if it's not directly related to you, don't get involved. If your friends want to get involved, you can offer advice or financial help, but don't get directly involved yourself."

Zhao Huanxi was puzzled, "Why is that?"

Xu Nian'an looked ahead and said, "In this world, there are countless ways people harm each other. Since you're still inexperienced, the best way to avoid trouble is to focus on yourself and not meddle in other people's affairs. As long as you stay out of things, others won't be able to do much to you. If something does concern you directly, don't make decisions on your own. Come back to the residence and discuss it with your elders. If you don't have time to come back, report it to the authorities immediately. In short, don't meddle in other people's business, and don't be afraid of being taken advantage of. You have your own backing."

Zhao Huanxi nodded again, starting to understand.

"Fourthly, watch your words, listen more, and speak less. Don't casually discuss politics or government officials with your friends. If they do, advise them against it, as a loose lips spells trouble. Try not to be alone outside, always bring Zhiyi and Zhi'er with you wherever you go. I've prepared a set of clean clothes for you in the carriage. If your clothes get dirty, change in the carriage, and don't go alone to unfamiliar rooms. If the weather changes suddenly, don't be embarrassed, just tell them you're afraid of thunder, and let Zhiyi and Zhi'er take you home."

As Xu Nian'an spoke, she sensed that the atmosphere was becoming a bit strange. When she looked over, she saw the handsome face beside her contorted into a frown.

"Dong **Jiejie**, hearing you say all this makes me not want to go out anymore," Zhao Huanxi said.

Xu Nian'an made a serious expression . "Whether you want to go out or not, you have to go out. Do you want to wait until you're in your seventies or eighties, and then have to listen to your children and grandchildren nagging at you about this?"

Zhao Huanxi: "....."
