---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 67"
snippet: "So Tired!"
order: 67
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In the left wing of the main room of the Yifang Garden, Zhao Huanxi got into bed first, and Xu Nian'an blew out the candles before joining him in bed and lowering the bed curtains.

The young couple sat on the bed, listening carefully to the sounds outside. 

They heard the sound of the door closing, followed by the faint sound of the door to the side room's jade screen cabinet opening and closing. There was a creaking sound from inside the wardrobe, as if Nanny Hou was lying down.

Although he knew this was a fake bridal chamber (marriage consummation), Zhao Huanxi still felt his heart pounding and his palms sweating. 

In the darkness, he felt Xu Nian'an leaning over, and a faint fragrance filled his nostrils.

He froze there, unsure whether he should move or not, and asked in a breathy voice, "Dong **Jiejie**, what... what are we doing now?"

Xu Nian'an was also very embarrassed, but luckily, it was pitch dark inside the curtain, so her expression couldn't be seen. She collected herself and whispered, "We need to make some noise, like the noise from the bed outside."

"Oh." Zhao Huanxi rolled over to try to get up.

Xu Nian'an grabbed his sleeve and whispered, "What are you doing?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I'm getting up to bounce."

Xu Nian'an: "...No, not that kind of noise."

"Then what kind of noise?"

Xu Nian'an blushed, "You... could you roll over a bit?"

Zhao Huanxi rolled over in the bed, and the bed frame creaked.

He rolled back, and the bed creaked again.

"Like this?" he asked.

Xu Nian'an felt a bit embarrassed but also wanted to laugh. She nodded and said, "Yes, keep rolling."

Zhao Huanxi continued rolling back and forth on the bed.

The bed cooperated by creaking incessantly, "Creak, creak," without pause.

Inside the jade screen cabinet, Nanny Hou stood there, listening intently to the sounds coming from the main room. Her face gradually turned red, and at the same time, she let out a sigh of relief, thinking to herself: Now, Furen can rest assured.

After rolling around a dozen times, Zhao Huanxi stopped and said, "I'm really hot."

"I'll fan you." Xu Nian'an hurriedly took out a folding fan and fanned him.

After rolling two more times, Zhao Huanxi stopped and whispered, "Dong **Jiejie**, aren't you going to call out?"

"Call out what?" Xu Nian'an didn't understand.

"The book says that when women... when women do this kind of thing, they'll call out (or scream)..." Zhao Huanxi's voice trailed off.

"What kind of indecent book are you reading?! And you're still shameless enough to mention it?" Xu Nian'an was both embarrassed and annoyed.

Zhao Huanxi said in a helpless tone, "Last time you said that reading this kind of book isn't something to be ashamed of..."

Xu Nian'an gave him a tap with the fan and said, "You talk too much! Hurry up and roll!"

So Zhao Huanxi began to roll around again, panting, while Xu Nian'an fanned him.

After rolling for about a quarter of an hour, he flopped onto the bed, sighing, "I'm so tired!"

Suddenly realizing his voice had gotten louder, Zhao Huanxi quickly covered his mouth with his hand.

Xu Nian'an couldn't help but laugh. She fanned him gently and whispered, "Alright, stop rolling. Rest for a bit, then go fetch some water."

After resting for a while, Zhao Huanxi pushed aside the bed curtains, got out of bed, lit a candle, and said, "Nanny, I need some water."

"Alright, I'll have the maid fetch some water right away." Nanny Hou, full of energy, quickly got up from the bed and walked out the door.

Zhao Huanxi: "..."

Seeing Nanny Hou leave, he walked to the bedside, pushed aside the curtains, and looked at Xu Nian'an half-lying on the bed, asking, "Dong **Jiejie**, did we manage to hoodwinked our way through this?"
<div class="author-note">
蒙混过关 - an idiom that means using deceptive means to evade questioning or inspection.
</div>

Xu Nian'an looked up and saw the young man standing by the bed, his jade-like face flushed, breathing slightly ragged. His eyes were moist and bright as he gazed at her. His long hair was slightly disheveled, and his collar was loose, revealing a hint of snowy white chest and half of a beautiful collarbone on the left side, glistening with a fine layer of sweat under the orange candlelight.

Her face suddenly reddened, and she hurriedly averted her gaze, nodding slightly.

Zhao Huanxi felt that his efforts had not been in vain. He smiled happily and let down the bed curtains.
<br>

The next morning, at the Yin hour (3-5 a.m), Zhao Huanxi woke up and wanted to get up to practice martial arts.

Xu Nian'an was startled awake by his movements. She sleepily reached out and grabbed his sleeve, saying, "Don't get up."

"I should go practice martial arts." Zhao Huanxi was somewhat swayed by her rare gentle tone.

"You just had your bridal chamber last night, so you shouldn't get up today. I already instructed Xiaowei to inform Qu **Shifu** to excuse you." Xu Nian'an murmured.

"Oh." Zhao Huanxi blushed and lay back down.

The young couple slept for another half an hour before getting up.

As the two were washing up, Nanny Hou sneakily went to the bed and touched the blood-stained cloth, then wrapped it up and put it in a box, which she then carried away.

After breakfast, while getting dressed and ready, Zhao Huanxi said, "I didn't practice martial arts today, so I feel like something is missing."

Xu Nian'an looked up at him, seeing a look of regret on his face. She thought to herself that this wouldn't do; if they went to Yin Furen like this, they might give themselves away.

After helping him organize his jade pendant and purse, Xu Nian'an dismissed the maid in the room and said, "**Sanlang**, we pretended to have our bridal chamber, but there's still one thing left to do."

Zhao Huanxi lowered his gaze to look at her. "What is it?"

"You raise your hand."

Zhao Huanxi raised one hand inexplicably.

Xu Nian'an held his hand and pushed up his sleeve, then bent down.

Zhao Huanxi was startled, thinking she was going to bite him. He braced himself for the pain, but she didn't use her teeth; instead, she gently pressed her soft lips against his wrist.

He could feel the moist tip of her tongue against the small patch of skin on his wrist. His handsome face blushed deeply, wanting to ask her what she was doing, but he dared not speak, afraid that if he did, she would stop.

However, even though he didn't ask, she quickly let go of his hand, leaving a small red mark on his delicate wrist.

It was left by her lips.

Just the thought of this made Zhao Huanxi feel like all the blood rushed to his face.

But it wasn't over yet.

"Did you see this red mark?" Xu Nian'an pointed to the red mark on his wrist and asked.

Zhao Huanxi blushed as he nodded.

"You do the same to me as I did to you just now, leave a red mark here." Xu Nian'an lifted her head slightly and pointed to the area on the right side of her neck where the collar couldn't cover.

Zhao Huanxi was stunned. He looked at her fair and delicate neck, then at her beautiful and radiant face. He stammered, "With... with my mouth?"

Xu Nian'an looked away. "Otherwise?"

Zhao Huanxi slowly walked up to her and looked at the spot she was pointing at. The woman's neck was slender and beautifully curved, her snow-white skin glowing in the morning light.

It was beautiful, but he couldn't bring himself to do it.

"Dong **Jiejie**, I... I dare not," he said.

Xu Nian'an who was turning her face away, bared her neck and waited for a while, only to hear the young man's hesitant words.

Xu Nian'an turned back, looking at the young man whose cheeks were flushed with embarrassment. "It's okay. I asked for your help, just to deceive Mother." She held Zhao Huanxi's right arm with her left hand and lifted her right hand to hook his neck from behind, urging him, "You can try, it's not difficult."

Zhao Huanxi followed her movements awkwardly, gradually lowering his body to approach her.

This posture was truly stirring, and Xu Nian'an couldn't resist it either. She turned her face away again.

When Zhao Huanxi's lips touched her warm, delicate skin amidst the familiar fragrance, his breath stopped.

The rising sun cast its golden rays through the window, projecting the graceful shadows of the two figures in the room, along with the shadow of the flowers in the vase on the high table by the window, onto the opposite wall.

Xu Nian'an glanced at it and then closed her eyes, her eyelashes trembling slightly, her fingers holding his arm tightening slightly.

Because of nervousness, Zhao Huanxi quickly let go of her.

Xu Nian'an walked to the mirror and took a look. There was only a shallow red mark on her neck, like a petal of a peach blossom, but it was enough.

Zhao Huanxi was so shy that he didn't dare to look her in the eye.

Seeing him blush to the roots of his ears, Xu Nian'an, with a shy and approving look, nodded to herself: His expression was very convincing, and they could definitely deceive everyone.

When they arrived at Jiaxiang House, Zhao Huanxi still hadn't recovered. Moreover, ever since he left the red mark on Xu Nian'an's neck, he couldn't help but sneak glances at it all the time.

In Yin Furen's eyes, this was exactly the reaction the young couple should have after their bridal chamber. She smiled and let them go, then instructed the kitchen to prepare stew to nourish their bodies.

After leaving, Zhao Huanxi rode his horse, occasionally lifting his right hand to look at the red mark on his wrist, then chuckled foolishly. He continued to do so even when they arrived at the Imperial Academy.

He thought to himself, they had held hands, hugged, and even kissed, so all in all, they should be considered a real couple.

"What are you thinking about? You're smiling so affectionately?" His shoulder was bumped, and Zhao Huanxi instantly snapped out of his reverie. He quickly pulled down his sleeve, cleared his throat uncomfortably, and looked at Qian Ming who had come close to him, saying, "I wasn't thinking about anything."

Qian Ming chuckled knowingly, not exposing him, and dragged his chair next to him, saying, "I have to say, you're really not very considerate. Although my **Biao Yi** is a bit willful, she's still quite beautiful, isn't she? If you want to splash, just splash it ah, why did you have to splash it on her face?"

Thinking of Qingxiang **Junzhu**, Zhao Huanxi frowned, feeling annoyed. "What kind of fragrant jade is she? She's not even as good as the osmanthus in my family's courtyard. Dare she expect my sympathy?"

Qian Ming burst into laughter, punching his arm and saying, "You little rascal, how come I didn't notice sooner that your mouth is so sharp? But let me remind you, now that you've offended her, you need to be careful in your actions in the future. My **Biao Yi** is the *late-born daughter*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="daughter born in her parents later years"></sup> of Su **Wang Yé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="His Highness Prince Su (Prince of first rank)"></sup>, spoiled at home, or she wouldn't have developed such a domineering character. Although a *Qin Wang* (first rank prince) cannot easily leave his fief, his in-laws are scattered all over, especially in the capital. Not only do you need to be careful, but you also need to remind the women in your family to be cautious, lest they fall into someone else's trap."

Zhao Huanxi's face turned serious upon hearing this. He said, "Then quickly tell me, which families in the capital are her family's relatives?" Qian Ming whispered to him, and curious onlookers like He Lun and Huo Qingzhe gathered around. They all shared what they knew with Zhao Huanxi.

Who says men aren't interested in gossip? When men gossip, they are more thorough than women, covering everything from old to young, inside and out, leaving nothing unexplored except for things that haven't happened yet.

Xu Nian'an watched him sitting on the bed, fanning herself while he told her all sorts of gossip. Sometimes he clicked his tongue in amazement, sometimes he burst out laughing, and sometimes he looked disgusted. His carefree and happy appearance gave her a sense of peaceful and happy times.

She couldn't help but feel that this was quite nice.
