---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 71"
order: 71
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The next morning, under the shade of the trees in front of the main hall of Zhaohua Temple, Zhao Shuxian and Zhao Shutong were looking up the stairs leading to the hall, accompanied by several maids and *Pozi*s.

"Shuxian, maybe we should forget about it. We've never met this Xu **Xiaojie**, we might end up mistaking someone else for her," Zhao Shutong said.

"Aiya, why are you in such a hurry? Since I asked you to come, I've naturally made all the necessary preparations. The Xu family's matriarch is ill, and she would never let that little hussy<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="小蹄子 or Xiao Tizi; a derogatory term to a young girl"></sup> from the Xu family come alone for something like this. Today is a ten-day break, so Xu Nian'an's younger brother will definitely accompany his sister. Xu Nian'an's brother visited our residence yesterday, and Nanny Zhang saw him. Later, when we see the young lady who comes with him, it will surely be that little hussy from the Xu family."

Just as they were speaking, Nanny Zhang pointed towards the stairs and said, "They're here, they're here, that's Xi **San Nainai**'s younger brother, Xu **Gongzi**."

Zhao Shuxian and Zhao Shutong looked over and saw three people coming up the stairs, one man and two women, all of whom looked very young.

The young man was dressed in a dark green brocade robe that made him look somewhat older. His skin was fair, his features delicate, and he stood tall with a calm and steady demeanor. Next to him was a young girl who seemed not yet of age, with a youthful face still carrying a bit of baby fat. She was wearing an ordinary light pink skirt. When she smiled, her white teeth and crescent-shaped eyes made her look very charming.

"She looks... she is quite pretty," Zhao Shutong said, feeling too embarrassed to look at Xu Moxiu for long, so she focused on Xu Hui’an instead.

Thinking of Xu Nian'an's appearance, one could tell that her younger siblings' looks wouldn't be far off, given they shared the same parents. Zhao Shuxian couldn't find any faults in their looks and remarked, "What's the use of being good-looking? They still have that poor and shabby look!"

The Xu siblings exchanged a few words in the square in front of the hall. Xu Hui’an, accompanied by her maid, went into the main hall, but Xu Moxiu did not enter.

He paced a couple of steps in the square, then looked up towards the bottom of the stairs and suddenly walked over.

A moment later, a young man, handsome and refined, dressed in fine clothes and a jade crown, came up the stairs, supporting an elderly woman with white hair. Behind them followed seven or eight maids and *Pozi*s.

"Lu **Xiong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="brother"></sup>, Lu **Lao Furen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Old Madam"></sup>," Xu Moxiu stepped forward and saluted the two.

Lu **Lao Furen** was somewhat plump, with a round face and kind eyes, looking very amiable.

She dabbed the light sweat on her forehead with a handkerchief and said with a cheerful smile, "Ah Xiu, what brings you here so early in the morning?"

Xu Moxiu replied, "Replying to **Lao Furen**, **Xiaozhi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="小侄 (xiǎo zhí) is a term used by a younger male to refer to the elders. It literally means 'this nephew'"></sup> is accompanying One's younger sister to offer incense."

"Oh? Sister? Where’s she?" Lu **Lao Furen** looked around.

Zhao Shuxian hurriedly hid behind a tree and pulled Zhao Shutong over.

"She has already gone into the hall," Xu Moxiu said respectfully.

"**Zumu**, would *you* like Nanny Zhang to accompany you to offer incense? Wenlin and I will chat outside," Lu Feng said.
<div class="author-note">
this Nanny (张) Zhang is different from  Nanny Zhang (章) that is with Zhao Shuxian.
</div>

Lu **Lao Furen** helplessly extended her tone, "Alright... Look at you two, spending all day in the same academy and still not having enough to talk about." She gestured for Nanny Zhang to come help her and then headed towards the main hall.

Lu Feng and Xu Moxiu were both polite individuals. Although they did not see Zhao Shuxian, they noticed what seemed to be women under the tree and did not come this way. The two of them went to a shady spot beside the main hall.

Under the tree, Zhao Shutong asked softly, "Is that young man who came later from the He family?"

Zhao Shuxian turned her head and saw Zhao Shutong's blushing face and affectionate gaze, looking like a young girl in love. She hurriedly pulled her and said, "What are you thinking? That's Lu **Gongzi**, my future husband."

Zhao Shutong's expression froze.

Zhao Shuxian secretly glanced towards the side of the main hall from behind the tree, feeling shy as she said, "Who knew he would accompany his grandmother to offer incense today and happen to meet us." She picked at the tree bark with her slender fingers, glanced for a while, then turned her head and said, "Since Lu **Gongzi** is here today, the plan to soil that Xu family's little hussy clothes is not easy to implement. After all, he has seen me and recognizes me."

"Then should we go back?" Zhao Shutong asked, her face cold.

Zhao Shuxian, too preoccupied to notice her change in mood, continued to gaze affectionately towards the side of the hall and said, "What's the rush? Let's wait a little longer."

"What's the matter? Why did you come to the temple today?" When they reached the side of the main hall and were alone, Lu Feng also relaxed. He leaned against the wall with both arms and glanced at Xu Moxiu, asking.

Xu Moxiu smiled and shook his head. "I can't hide anything from you. I came to accompany my **Wu Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th younger sister."></sup>."

"Accompany her? Who is she meeting?" Lu Feng asked curiously.

"It's someone you know too, from our academy, He Xuning."

Lu Feng ran through the list of people in his mind and commented, "Ordinary family background, average talent. After all your searching, you found someone like this for your sister?"

"It wasn't me who found him. It was a relative from my **Jiefu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older sister's husband. "></sup>'s family who introduced him. They kindly acted as a matchmaker, so we couldn't just ignore it. That's why I came to see for myself," Xu Moxiu said.

When Xu Moxiu mentioned his older sister who married into the Jing Guogong Residence, Lu Feng's eyes flickered. After hesitating for a moment, he said, "Wenlin, I'd like to ask for your help in finding out something. I wonder if you're willing?"

"What is it?" Xu Moxiu asked.

Just as Lu Feng was about to speak, a maid from the Lu Residence hurried over in a panic and said, "**Shaoyé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="young master."></sup>, something's wrong. **Lao Furen** has fainted. Please come and see!"

Lu Feng and Xu Moxiu, upon hearing this, hurried towards the main hall.

When they arrived and looked inside, they saw Lu **Lao Furen** lying halfway on the ground, surrounded by maids and *Pozi*s. Xu Hui’an was supporting Lu **Lao Furen**'s back with one hand, trying to help her breathe better. Her voice, tinged with a trembling sob, was soft and young, "**Lao Furen**, are *you* feeling any better? Can *you* breathe?"

"I'm much better now, little girl, please don't cry," Lu **Lao Furen** said weakly, half-opening her eyes.

Lu Feng glanced at the charming figure kneeling on the ground with her back to him, then walked over to help Lu **Lao Furen**, asking with concern, "**Zumu**, how are *you* feeling?"

Seeing him approach, Xu Hui’an quickly handed Lu **Lao Furen** over to him and stood up, moving back to Xu Moxiu's side.

Lu **Lao Furen** was helped to sit on a cushion by Lu Feng and Nanny Zhang. She then said, "No need to worry, I'm fine. I just got up too quickly during the bowing and felt a bit dizzy."

Nannu Zhang chimed in, "It really frightened me, but thanks to this young lady, who knew the method of acupressure. A few presses from her and **Lao Furen** woke up."

Lu **Lao Furen** looked up and saw Xu Huian standing beside Xu Moxiu. She was momentarily stunned before she realized and asked, "Ah Xiu, is this young lady your younger sister?"

Xu Moxiu bowed and said, "Replying to **Lao Furen**, this is One’s younger sister, who’s called Junjun. **Xiaomei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="little/youngest sister."></sup>, this is Lu Residence’s **Lao Furen**, and this is **Gege**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older brother."></sup>'s good friend, Lu **Gongzi**."

Xu Hui’an stepped forward and bowed to Lu **Lao Furen** and Lu Feng.

The young girl was so shy that she didn't dare to lift her head. Lu Feng was tall, so he could only see her sparse bangs and long, wet eyelashes, as well as the delicate and small silver hairpin in her bun.

Lu **Lao Furen**, however, was very pleased. After recovering, she stood up with the help of Lu Feng and Nanny Zhang, reached out to hold Xu Hu’ian's hand, and said, "Xiao Junjun is so lovely. Come, come with **Zumu** to the guest room and rest for a while."
<div class="author-note">
Xiao means little. Elders adding 'Xiao' before someone's name is a sign of affection.
</div>

As Xu Hui’an was being led away by Lu **Lao Furen**, she glanced back to look at her brother. Unexpectedly, her gaze fell on Lu Feng, who was walking beside Xu Moxiu.

The young nobleman, barely of age, had a handsome face with a pair of dark and bright peacock eyes. When he looked at people, his gaze was deep and focused, as if he could see into their hearts with just one glance.

Xu Hui’an was startled and quickly turned her head back, too afraid to look back again.

Under the tree in front of the hall, Zhao Shuxian watched as Lu **Lao Furen** led Xu Hui’an away, closely followed by Lu Feng. She couldn't help but widen her eyes in surprise.

Seeing the group heading towards the guest house, she remarked, "Wasn't the Xus here to meet with He **Gongzi**? Why are they following the Lu family? Didn’t they know that Lu **Gongzi** is already engaged? How shameless!"

Zhao Shutong saw her getting agitated but said nothing, silently mocking her in her heart.

Zhao Shuxian wanted to follow and see what was happening but was afraid of being gossipped about. In the end, she pointed to a clever maid and asked her to go and find out.

Inside the guesthouse, Lu **Lao Furen** and Xu Hui’an sat chatting and drinking tea. Lu Feng couldn't go in, so he stood outside the door. Xu Moxiu stood with him outside, and they could faintly hear the conversation between the two inside the room.

"Junjun, were you scared because of **Zumu** just now? Here, have a cup of agarwood drink to calm your nerves."

"Thank you, **Lao Furen**." The girl's voice was gentle and delicate, sounding very pleasant.

"Why be so formal? Ah Xiu is a good friend of my grandson's. Since I only have Feng'er as a grandson and no granddaughter, it's fine for Junjun to call me **Zumu**, isn't it?"

After a while, the sound of the girl's voice, tinged with shyness, came from inside the room, "**Zumu**."

Lu Feng couldn't help but smile, turning his head to look at Xu Moxiu and pointed with his head towards the back of the guesthouse.

The two walked over, and on the way, Lu Feng asked, "Did you send a maid ahead to keep an eye out? Otherwise, when the He family arrives, and they don't see you two, they might think you didn't come."

Xu Moxiu replied, "I've already sent the maid Danping ahead to keep watch."

Lu Feng nodded.

They arrived at an old pine tree and sat down at a stone table engraved with a chessboard (Chinese chess).

Xu Moxiu asked, "Earlier, you mentioned something you wanted to ask me about?"

Lu Feng paused for a moment before looking up. "Recently, my **Zumu** heard some rumors. It is said that on the second day of your older sister's marriage to the Jing Guogong Residence, Zhao **Er Guniang** from Jing Guogong Residence’s Fifth Branch publicly humiliated her. Later, she even went to Zhao **Lao Furen** to tattle, causing your sister to be punished to copy the 《Lessons for Women》 in the ancestral hall on the second night of her marriage. What I wanted to ask you to find out is whether this matter is true or not?"

Xu Moxiu looked at him. "Whether it is true or not, what does it matter?"

Lu Feng said, "My **Zumu** is not in the best of health, and she's not one to be fooled. If Zhao **Er Guniang** really has such a temperament, she won't be able to get along with my **Zumu** after marrying into the family. I don't expect much from my future wife, just that she be filial and respectful. If she can't even do these two things, then our marriage cannot last. Rather than waiting for discord to arise after marriage and then divorce, it's better not to marry in the first place, to avoid hurting each other."

"If this matter is true, would you seek to break off the engagement with the Guogong Residence?" Xu Moxiu asked.

"The reputation of a woman is precious. It would be appropriate if the Guogong Residence is the one to break off the engagement with me," Lu Feng said.

Xu Moxiu remained silent, lowering his eyes.

Lu Feng observed his expression closely and asked, "Do you know about this matter?"

Xu Moxiu nodded.

"Is it true?" 

Xu Moxiu nodded again.

Lu Feng fell silent.

Xu Moxiu, seeing his somber expression, spoke up, "Marriage is a serious matter, so it's better to be cautious. Although this matter is true, the discord between Jing Guogong’s First Branch and Fifth Branch is well known. Zhao **Er Guniang** is likely targeting my older sister due to these reasons, not because of her naturally rude behavior. Lu **Xiong**, you might as well observe a little longer. After all, this engagement was arranged by Lu **Bofu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Uncle"></sup> and **Guogong Yé**."

Lu Feng nodded. "I understand. Let's go and see if the He family has arrived."
