---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 73"
snippet: "Biao Xiong appears, the puppy gets jealous."
order: 73
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Xu Nian'an turned her head to look and saw a handsome young man, about seventeen or eighteen years old, accompanied by a servant boy who looked like a *book attendant*, emerging from the thick fog. 
<div class="author-note">
书童 - a servant in olden times who assisted the master and his children with their studies. These servants were typically minors.
</div>

His skin was fair, his lips a bright red, and he had naturally alluring *peach blossom eyes*. When he smiled, it was as dazzling as the blooming flowers in the Sixth Month. 
<div class="author-note">
桃花眼 (Táohuāyǎn): Literally "peach blossom eyes." In Chinese physiognomy and literature, these are almond-shaped eyes with slightly upturned outer corners and a watery, shimmering quality. They are considered very attractive and a sign of an amorous or flirtatious nature.<br><br>
The Sixth Month (六月): In the Chinese calendar, the sixth month represents the height of summer. Comparing a man's smile to "flowers in the sixth month" emphasizes a beauty that is intense, vibrant, and perhaps slightly overwhelming in its brilliance.
</div>

At this moment, he was walking over while tapping his palm with a folding fan, smiling and saying, "Very lively so early in the morning! What a good show!"

Zhao Shuxian stared in shock at the unexpected person who suddenly appeared. Her face turned bright red, and she loudly questioned, "Who are you? How dare you trespass into the inner courtyard of the residence?"

"Are you bullying me because I don't visit often? Since when is this the inner courtyard? It's clearly the main garden. Why can't I come here? As for who I am, why should I tell you?" Yin Luochen squinted his eyes and looked Zhao Shuxian up and down in her panicked and embarrassed state, clicking his tongue and saying, "I have to say, you people of Fifth Branch really spares no effort to suppress the First Branch. Tell me, if that Lu **Gongzi** you mentioned knew you possessed such... nimble posture, what do you think he would feel?" As he spoke, he used his folding fan to mimic a sliding downward motion (the "nimble posture)".

<div class="author-note">
His mockery of her "nimble posture" is particularly biting because noble ladies were expected to be stiff, graceful, and demure. Suggesting she is "nimble" or "flexible" in a panicked state is an insult to her lady-like dignity.
</div>

Xu Nian'an couldn't help but cover half her face with her round fan, laughing quietly.

Zhao Shuxian was mortified and furious.

"What are you standing there for? Go explain the situation to your **Zumu**! Let me tell you, I protect my own. If my **Biao Dimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Dimei is younger brother's wife. Biao here indicates the Biao cousin relation."></sup> get scolded by your **Zumu** because of what just happened, I will have my servant mimic your splendid performance today in front of Lu **Gongzi**. Do you believe me?" Yin Luochen said, raising his eyebrows and glancing at Zhao Shuxian.

Zhao Shuxian frowned, turned around, and left with her maid, swishing her sleeves.

Xu Nian'an stepped forward, gracefully bowed to Yin Luochen, and said, "Greetings, **Biao Xiong**. One has heard from Muqin that **Biao Xiong** would be visiting today, but I didn't expect you to arrive so early. One didn’t you welcome properly. Please forgive me."

Yin Luochen smiled and said, "If anyone should apologize, it should be me. When Huanxi got married, I was away studying and couldn't come back in time to attend the wedding. It was a great regret. Fortunately, while I missed the wedding feast, I can still make up for it with a gift. Where is that rascal Huanxi?”

"He is practicing martial arts at Plum Mountain. Does **Biao Xiong** know the way? Should I have a maid lead **Biao Xiong** there?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"Practicing martial arts?" Yin Luochen widened his eyes in surprise, then laughed. "No need, this isn't my first time here. I want to see what that rascal looks like practicing martial arts."

With that, the two of them parted ways.

When Xu Nian'an arrived at Lingde Hall, **Si Taitai** had probably already received the news that the match between the Xu and He families didn't work out. In a good mood, she didn't make any sarcastic remarks toward Xu Nian'an.

After paying her morning respects, Xu Nian'an left and went to Jixiang House.

Yin Furen had just sent off a group of stewardesses. Seeing Xu Nian'an arrive, she asked, "Ah Chen came early this morning. I was busy and couldn't entertain him, so I told him to find Huanxi in the garden. Have you seen him?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "I saw him on the way here. **Biao Xiong** went to watch Huanxi practice martial arts.”

Yin Furen sipped her tea and said, "Good that he found him."

"Mom, since Xu and He families have already met, I was thinking of going to the Wu Residence this afternoon to inform Wu Furen, so we don't keep her waiting and save **Si Gujie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's (4th) older sister"></sup> the trouble of making a special trip," Xu Nian'an said.

"That's good," Yin Furen agreed immediately and called Qianhe to prepare a gift. She then turned to Xu Nian'an and said, "Although the match didn't work out, Wu Furen's goodwill should still be acknowledged with a thank-you gift.”

Xu Nian'an nodded and added, "When I went to greet **Zumu** today, I heard them talking about Ying Guogong Residence before I entered. It was quite lively, but they stopped talking when they saw me. I wonder what it is about?"

Yin Furen let out a sarcastic laugh and said, "What else could it be? Ying Guogong Residence's **Lao Furen** is celebrating her 70th birthday early next month. In the past, when **Lao Taitai** was in the Buddha Hall, the invitations were sent directly to me. Now that everyone knows she has come out, the invitations are naturally sent to her. She thinks she has the authority to decide who goes and who doesn't, so of course, she's feeling pleased with herself. But what she doesn't realize is that any family with some sense knows that given our residence's current situation, they need to send two invitations.”

"So Mother also received an invitation? Our household got two invitations. Aren't they afraid of offending **Zumu**'s side?" Xu Nian'an asked softly.

Yin Furen replied, "There are indeed two invitations, but their nature is different. The one in **Lao Taitai**’s hand is an official invitation from one noble family to another, a formal exchange. The one in my hand, however, is from Jing Furen, the eldest daughter-in-law of Ying Guogong, sent to me personally as a friend. Even if others find out, they can't say much. **Lao Taitai** thinks she can stop you from socializing by not including you in her circles. Ha, she needs to be able to do that first!”

Xu Nian'an suddenly understood, silently admiring how these matriarchs of noble families are truly shrewd and tactful. Even when sending invitations, they must understand the intricacies of the other family's relationships to ensure they offend no one.

When she left Jixiang House and returned to Yifang Garden, she saw Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen, the two Biao cousins, sparring with bamboo sticks in the yard.

Yin Luochen, clearly someone who doesn't hold back with his words, blocked Zhao Huanxi's attack with his bamboo stick and taunted, "You've been practicing martial arts for over a month, and this is all you've got?"

Catching sight of a familiar figure at the courtyard gate out of the corner of his eye, Zhao Huanxi suddenly changed his attack and struck Yin Luochen's thigh with the bamboo stick, making him jump up in pain.

"Are you for real?!"

Before he could finish speaking, Zhao Huanxi charged at him, using a clever move to throw him to the ground. Only then did he pretend to just notice Xu Nian'an returning, raising his head with a smile and saying, "Dong'er, you're back?"

Yin Luochen, lying on the ground, turned his head and cried out dramatically, "Aiya, it hurts so much! **Dimei**, come and do something about **Biao Di**! Look at this, is this how you treat your **Biao Xiong**? What kind of hospitality is this?"

Xu Nian'an glared at Zhao Huanxi and instructed the maids in the courtyard, "Hurry and help **Biao Shaoyé**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Shaoye means young master. Biao here indicates this youngmaster is a Biao cousin to their master."></sup> up.”

Zhao Huanxi, observing the interaction between the two, sensed something amiss. "You two have already met?"

Before Xu Nian'an could speak, Yin Luochen, who had already stood up, dusted off his robe and said, "Of course, we've met. **Dimei** even praised me for being handsome!”

Xu Nian'an: "....."

Zhao Huanxi instantly felt dejected and asked Xu Nian'an for confirmation, "Really?"

Xu Nian'an nodded, "En, I said that **Biao Xiong** is the second most handsome after you."

One sentence cheered up Zhao Huanxi.

Yin Luochen watched the interaction between the young couple, smiling without saying a word.

Xu Nian'an then asked him, "Have **Biao Xiong** visited the room that has been prepared? If there's anything to add or move, feel free to tell me. Mother said it's important for you to feel comfortable here."

Yin Luochen's peach blossom eyes were both charming and bright, seeming to contain hidden affection when looking at people. He replied, "**Gumu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="姑母 - father's sister"></sup> already mentioned earlier that **Dimei** is a thoughtful and considerate person. While staying here in the future, I will definitely have to trouble you."

"You're not allowed to trouble Dong'er, only me," Zhao Huanxi interjected.

Yin Luochen glanced at him, smiled, but didn't respond, only saying to Xu Nian'an, "The gifts have been taken to the room by the maid. **Dimei**, remember to have a look at it and decide whether you like it or not.”

Xu Nian'an bowed, "Thank you, **Biao Xiong**."

Back in the room, Xu Nian'an immediately saw the gifts on the table in the middle of the hall—a square brocade box and a delicately carved pearwood box with a handle.

"**Biao Shaoyé** said that the pearwood box contains a gift for **San Nainai**, and the brocade box contains a gift for **San Yé**," Xiaowei said.

Xu Nian'an was about to look at her own gift when Zhao Huanxi rushed over and pressed his arm on the box, waving his hand to dismiss the maids.

"What are you doing?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"He gave you such a big box as a gift, but gave me such a small box. It's obvious he doesn't have good intentions," Zhao Huanxi said, frowning at the box.

"Then shall we swap?" Xu Nian'an decided not to touch the box and instead opened the square brocade box. Inside were Four Treasures of the Study, each one simple and exquisite, clearly of considerable value.
<div class="author-note">
文房四宝 - Four Treasures of the Study is an expression used to denote the brush, ink, paper and ink stone used in Chinese calligraphy.
</div>

"The Four Treasures of the Study, they're quite practical." Xu Nian'an admired them for a while, then urged Zhao Huanxi who was beside her, "See what's in your box."

When Zhao Huanxi opened the box, his face turned green; it was full of needles and threads.

"Hahaha!" Xu Nian'an covered her mouth with a handkerchief, laughing until her stomach hurt.

"I'm not swapping with you anymore." Zhao Huanxi dropped the box, feeling embarrassed, and turned to leave.

"Where are you going? Come back here!" Xu Nian'an grabbed his arm, but he let out a hiss as if in pain.

"What's wrong? Did you injure yourself in the spar with **Biao Xiong** just now?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"How can he injure me?" Zhao Huanxi said loudly.

"Then what happened?" Xu Nian'an pressed for an answer.

"Last night, Huanrong and I went to **Zufu**'s courtyard. **Zufu** wanted to test our skills, so he asked us to attack him together, but..."

"You both got knocked down?" Xu Nian'an asked, trying to hold back her laughter.

Feeling embarrassed, Zhao Huanxi turned to leave again.

"Come back, come back. Is the injury serious? Let me see," Xu Nian'an pulled him back.

"It's not serious, just some bruises," Zhao Huanxi said.

"Bruises all over and you say it's not serious? Do you still plan to practice today? Come in and apply some medicinal oil," Xu Nian'an pulled him into the side room, found the medicinal oil she had used previously, and turned to see Zhao Huanxi standing there. She said, "Why are you just standing there? Take off your clothes."

Zhao Huanxi blushed. "Are you going to help me apply it?"

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment. "Should I call Xiaowei or Nuanxing to help you?"

Zhao Huanxi immediately replied, "No, I only want you to do it.”

He took off his outer robe and then his inner garment.

Xu Nian'an glanced up and couldn't help but feel that his frame seemed more robust than when she had seen after he fainted on the street that day. Unsure if her memory was playing tricks on her, she quickly averted her eyes and said, "Come and sit down."

Zhao Huanxi went over and sat down. He felt a bit shy at first, but catching a glimpse of Xu Nian'an with her neck bent and her cheeks blushing, he suddenly felt less embarrassed.

Xu Nian'an approached him, and with just a glance at his body, she could only think of four words; *so horrible one cannot bear to look*.
<div class="author-note">
惨不忍睹 (Cǎnbùrěndǔ): A four-character idiom (chengyu) meaning "too horrible to look at" or "a pitiful sight."
</div>

His body was covered in bruises, with hardly a patch of uninjured skin. Some of the more vulnerable areas were even layered with old and new bruises, indicating that the old wounds hadn't healed before new ones were added.

"You… doesn't it hurt?" Xu Nian'an asked, feeling a pang of sympathy.

"It does."

"Then how did you endure it?"

"Thinking of you helps me endure it," Zhao Huanxi said softly, his long eyelashes casting shadows as he looked down.
