---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 75"
snippet: "My current liking for you only goes as far as holding hands and hugs."
order: 75
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Zhao Huanxi hesitated and said, "I'm only seventeen after the new year. My mother shouldn't be so eager to make me a father, right?"

Yin Luochen shook his finger, "If you haven't had your bridal chamber, **Gumu** might not be in a hurry. But if you have, but still can't conceive, then **Gumu** will definitely be anxious. This is not a matter of your age, but a matter of whether **Dimei** can conceive. By then, you'll have to see a doctor for medicine, which will be quite troublesome.”

Zhao Huanxi frowned deeply, forming a character on his forehead, thinking about how unpleasant medicine tasted. He couldn’t bear the thought of letting Dong'er drink so much medicine for no reason. 

Yin Luochen observed his Biao cousin's troubled expression calmly, finding it quite amusing. 

After a moment of distress, Zhao Huanxi decided to follow Dong'er's advice and learn from the strength of the person in front of him.

He looked up at Yin Luochen, who was sitting across from him, and earnestly said, "**Biao Ge**, can you teach me how to win a girl's heart?”

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After returning from the Wu Residence, Xu Nianan, as usual, went to report the situation to Yin Furen. Yin Furen ordered someone to bring her a bowl of walnut milk and asked, "How has Jiaxian been lately?”

Xu Nianan replied, "**Si Gujie** looks well and seems to be in good spirits. She told me that after the incident with Zheng Man'er, she has come to realize that only her maiden family truly cares for her. Her husband is not worth her wholehearted affection. If her husband treats her well, she should reduce her kindness to him accordingly."

Yin Furen comforted her, "That's exactly right. How many good men are there in this world? We women only need to hold on to our own assets and raise our children well."

Xu Nianan smiled without saying anything.

Yin Furen quickly realized what she had said and hurriedly added, "I was referring to those unfaithful and unscrupulous men. Huanxi is still young and pure-hearted, so he should be treated well."

Xu Nianan almost choked, put down her bowl, and covered her mouth with a handkerchief, smiling as she said, "**Erxi** understands ."

Yin Furen continued, "Your **Er Gujie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband's (2nd) older sister"></sup>'s eldest son, Fan **Ge’er**, will be eleven this year. His birthday is the day before the Mid-Autumn Festival. The Duan Family is not planning a big celebration, but our family should still go and have a drink. Do you know how to play Ma Diao cards?"
<div class="author-note">
马吊牌 (Mǎdiàopái): A famous Chinese gambling card game that was extremely popular during the Ming and Qing dynasties. It is often considered a precursor to modern Mahjong. The name refers to the 3-on-1 gameplay. Three players cooperate to defeat the "Banker." The name comes from a horse (Mǎ) lifting/hanging (Diào) one leg (the Banker) while the other three hooves (the players) stay on the ground.
</div>

Xu Nianan replied, "Know a little.”

Yin Furen said, "That's good. Your **Er Gujie**'s mother-in-law, Duan **Lao Furen**, is an avid card player. When we go, we'll inevitably have to play cards with her. Just let her win a bit."

Xu Nianan nodded, "I'll remember that."

After Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen returned from the street, the three youngsters had dinner at Yin Furen's place.

After dinner, as they left Jixiang House, Zhao Huanxi said to Xu Nianan, "Dong'er, you go back first. **Biao Ge** and I are going to have some fun." With that, he left with Yin Luochen.

Watching his back, Xu Nianan called out, "Aren't you going to practice martial arts?"

Without turning his head, Zhao Huanxi replied, "I am. I'll head directly to **Zufu**'s courtyard later.”

He and Yin Luochen walked a few steps down another path before Zhao Huanxi looked back and saw that Xu Nianan had already left with her maid, feeling anxious again. He asked Yin Luochen, "Is this really okay? What if she gets angry and ignores me?"

"She won't, my foolish **Biao Di**. Don't worry," Yin Luochen said, putting an arm around Zhao Huanxi's shoulder as they walked. "She wants to play the role of a good daughter-in-law. If you keep your distance, how can she play her part alone? Naturally, she will come to you, trying to please you and stay close to you. Tonight, after you finish practicing martial arts, don't rush back. Wait until she is asleep before you return. Tomorrow, the three of us will have breakfast together. Talk to me, not to her. After breakfast, we'll go study. You'll see, within three days, she will be unable to bear it and will try to please you. Then, won't everything be as you wish?”

Zhao Huanxi was uneasy, "Is this going to work? What if she gets angry..."

"You can rest assured! If it doesn't work, **Biao Ge** will twist One's own head off and let you use it as a ball," Yin Luochen said.
<br>

That night, after Xu Nianan had bathed and sat on the swing until her hair was dry, Zhao Huanxi had not yet returned.

Deep in thought, she glanced at the dark west wing where the lights had not yet been turned on, then looked towards the courtyard gate. She got up and instructed Songyun to have the maids leave the lights and water on for Yin Luochen and Zhao Huanxi, then she went back to her room to sleep.

At midnight, Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen returned sneakily.

The main chamber was quiet, with Xiaoying, who is on duty tonight, dozing off in the corner.

Zhao Huanxi quietly walked to the wardrobe with green gauze curtains, looked inside, and saw a pair of embroidered shoes at the foot of the bed. Xu Nianan had already gone to bed.

He returned to the corner where Xiaoying was, woke her up, and asked her to fetch water for him to bathe.

After bathing, with his wet hair loose around his shoulders, he walked to the door of the inner room and saw Xu Nianan sitting on the edge of the bed, still half asleep.

"You're back," she rubbed her eyes, got out of bed, and walked towards him in her shoes.

Zhao Huanxi stood there dumbfounded. "Did I wake you up?”

"No, you didn't. I couldn't sleep well anyway knowing you weren't back yet. Your hair is still so wet, how can you sleep like this? Xiaoying, bring some dry towels," Xu Nianan said, leading him back to the room and instructing outside.

When the towels arrived, Xu Nianan sat Zhao Huanxi down on a stool by the table and slowly dried his hair with the towels.

"What were you doing tonight? Why did you come back so late?" Xu Nianan asked him.

"I went to **Zufu**'s courtyard to learn sword techniques, and **Biao Ge** went too. After the lesson, the three of us chatted in the pavilion outside for a while. Before we knew it, it was already late," Zhao Huanxi replied, feeling guilty.

"From now on, if you come back this late, don't wash your hair. Sleeping with wet hair can cause headaches," Xu Nianan said.

"Oh," Zhao Huanxi felt awkward. It was so hot. If he didn't wash his hair after coming back, wouldn't it smell? Otherwise, he should take a bath after practicing martial arts tomorrow before going out.

"What are you planning for tomorrow?" When he didn't answer, Xu Nianan asked again.

"I'll be studying with **Biao Ge**," Zhao Huanxi replied.

"The morning earlier, you were looking at **Biao Xiong** as if *his eyes weren't eyes and his nose wasn't nose*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="an idiom typically used to describe a situation where one feels constantly criticized or faulted, no matter what they do"></sup>. Now you seem to be getting along like brothers. Does going out together really help improve your relationship?" Xu Nianan laughed.

Zhao Huanxi became nervous and said, "Didn't you say I should learn from his strengths?”

"Well, then, you tell me, now that you're getting along so well with him, what strengths are you planning to learn from him?" Xu Nianan asked, looking down at him.

"I... I'm not telling you," Zhao Huanxi's face turned red, and he turned away.

"Why not? It's a good thing to learn from others' strengths. Why won't you tell me?" Xu Nianan tugged at his long hair.

"I just won't tell you," Zhao Huanxi stubbornly replied, shaking his head.

"If you don't want to tell, then don't," Xu Nianan didn't insist, but while helping him dry his wet hair, she sighed, "We've only been pretending to be married for a few days, and we're already growing apart. Fortunately, it's a fake marriage. If it were real, how would we get through the days ahead?"

Zhao Huanxi realized he had made a mistake. This approach was backfiring! He knew that Yin Luochen's method was not effective!

"No, I'm not growing apart from you," he quickly turned around and explained to her, "It's... it's..."

"What is it?" Xu Nianan stared at his increasingly red face.

Lowering his head, Zhao Huanxi whispered, "**Biao Ge** said that by being cold and distant from you, I could make you treat me better."

"Why would he say that? Am I not treating you well?"

"Not... not this kind of good... it's... to make you treat me more intimately," Zhao Huanxi's head lowered as if he wanted to disappear.

Xu Nianan was silent for a moment, then confirmed with him, "You want to be more intimate with me?"

Zhao Huanxi thought that since it had come to this, there was no point in denying it. He closed his eyes, mustered his courage, and nodded.

Xu Nianan put down the towel, walked in front of him, and said, "**Sanlang**, lift your head. I have something to ask you."

Zhao Huanxi was so ashamed that he wished he could hide. How could he lift his head? He not only refused to lift his head but also covered his face with his hands!

"Don't be like this. I won't make fun of you, and I won't look down on you," Xu Nianan said gently.

Feeling the pressure lessened, Zhao Huanxi removed his hands from his face and slowly raised his head to look at Xu Nianan, who was very serious and showed no sign of teasing him.

Xu Nianan looked at his flushed cheeks and watery eyes.

Compared to her calm demeanor, his eyes were evasive, like a child who had done something wrong and was afraid of being scolded by his parents.

"We've been married for two months. During these two months, I can see that you trust me and rely on me. You said you want to be closer to me, and I'm not surprised. But I want you to think carefully. Can you distinguish between this desire to be closer to me and your feelings for your mother and sisters? Are they different?" Xu Nianan looked into his eyes and asked.

Zhao Huanxi hesitated for a moment, then decisively said, "Of course they're different. I wouldn't even think about leaving marks on their necks. Even if they asked for my help, I wouldn't do that. They are my family, but you... you..." He couldn't hold back and lowered his head, his long eyelashes drooping as he said, "You are someone I like."

"So you want to be a real couple with me?"

Zhao Huanxi felt that he couldn't continue to evade this question and lifted his head, looking at her eagerly. He nodded, "Yes."

Xu Nianan paused and said to him, "But I don't like you that much yet."

Zhao Huanxi lowered his eyes, "...I know."

"My current liking for you only goes as far as holding hands," Xu Nianan bent down and held one of his hands, "and hugs." She pulled him up, gently leaned against his chest, and wrapped her arms around his waist.

The intimacy and tenderness left Zhao Huanxi dumbfounded on the spot. After a while, he regained his senses, tensed up, and asked nervously and excitedly, "Dong'er, can I... can I hug you too?"

"You can."

Zhao Huanxi's arms, which had been hanging by his side, slowly lifted as if frozen, awkwardly and gently embracing her narrow back, pulling her into his arms. An indescribable sweetness and joy surged from the bottom of his heart.

He relaxed completely, gently holding Xu Nianan, his face against her hair, watching the flickering candlelight, feeling that his soul was warm and at ease.

"Dong'er, you're so *wonderful*," his voice, like the night wind, softly brushed past her ear in the wordless tranquility.

<div class="author-note">
The word he used was 你真好. While "You're so good/kind" is the most literal translation, it often feels a bit "flat" or like a moral judgment in English. In Chinese, 你真好 is a very common way to express deep gratitude and affection without having to say the more "heavy" expressions. It’s a "soft" expression of love.
</div>
