---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 78"
snippet: "Crab-Stuffed Orange for Dong Jiejie to eat."
order: 78
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The Mid-Autumn family banquet of Jing Guogong Residence is held in the Guanye Pavilion<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="litm Moon Viewing Storried Pavilion"></sup> on Zhi Mountain, which is the highest point in the entire residence.

The tower has five floors, with each floor accommodating at most three tables. Some people from **Guogong Yé**'s brothers' families would also come. Yin Furen, as usual, had prepared the name list and took it to **Guogong Yé** for approval.

The fifth floor is naturally the best for moon viewing. Yin Furen arranged two tables for the men and one table for the women on the fifth floor, prioritizing the elders and favored younger members from both inside and outside the residence (those who live in the residence and outside of the residence) to be seated on this level.

**Guogong Yé** glanced at the list and, upon seeing Zhao Mingkun and Zhao Huanchao on the fifth floor, picked up his brush and circled their names, saying, “Move them downstairs.”

Yin Furen was secretly delighted, but she respectfully replied, “Yes.”

"Let Huanxi take the vacant seat at my table.”

Originally, Zhao Huanxi was seated with the younger generation and not at **Guogong Yé**'s table. Now that **Guogong Yé** had dismissed Zhao Mingkun, wouldn't there be a vacant seat?

Yin Furen, suppressing her excitement, responded affirmatively.

**Guogong Yé** noticed that the table for the women on the fifth floor included **Lao Taitai** and several ladies from inside and outside the residence, as well as Zhao Shuxian, while Xu Nian'an was assigned to the table with other granddaughters-in-law on the fourth floor.

He then circled the names of Zhao Shuxian and Xu Nian'an with his brush to switch their placements, returned the list to Yin Furen, and said, "I know you have a generous nature, but remember, in our Zhao family, daughters-in-law are more valuable than daughters, whether they are daughters-in-law or granddaughters-in-law.”

Yin Furen nodded respectfully, “**Erxi** will remember.'”

After leaving Dunyi Hall, Yin Furen returned to Jiaxiang House with a beaming smile. She had several copies of the adjusted list made and sent to each branch, so that each member of the branches could sit down according to their seat arrangements in the evening at the Guanye Pavilion.

Zhao Shuxian looked at the list and ran to **Lao Taitai** in tears, saying, "**Zumu**, look at this. Once Xu Nian'an married into our family, I even lost the chance to go to the fifth floor to view the moon. Even if I can't go as a granddaughter, according to seniority, it should be **Er Sao**'s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="2nd older brother's wife; Zhao Huanxu's wife"></sup> turn. She's a new bride who hasn't even borne a child for the Zhao family. Why should she get the seat? **Zumu**, can't *you* take over the stewardship and put things right?”

**Lao Taitai** remained silent. It wasn't that she didn't want to take over; she couldn't. When her only son died in war, she was heartbroken and urged **Guogong Yé** to pass the heir title to Huanxu as compensation, but **Guogong Yé** refused. In her anger, she retreated into the Buddha Hall. Over the past decade, with **Guogong Yé**’s support, Yin Furen’s influence in the Guogong Residence had become deeply entrenched. How can the stewardship power easily be taken over by others?

"Even **Da Laoyé** has been moved to the fourth floor. **Da Taitai** does not have the courage to make such arrangements. This list must have been approved by your **Zufu**," said **Lao Taitai**.

Zhao Shuxian's face turned pale. She looked down at the list in her hand again and said, "So, **Zufu** also approved Huanxi sitting at his table? How could this be? Does **Zufu** really dislike **Er Ge** now? **Er Ge** is so foolish, causing **Zufu**'s disapproval because of that woman. What should we do now?”

**Lao Taitai** sneered coldly, "Isn't this all arranged by the First Branch? If it weren't for the fact that **Da Taitai**'s good son-in-law made a scene at your **Er Ge**'s academy, things wouldn't have gotten so out of hand.”

"**Da Taitai** is truly heartless! **Er Sao** is useless too, unable to control **Er Ge**. *You* see how capable Xu Nian'an is. She had Zhao Huanxi under her control so firm that he didn't dare to go west when he was told to go east!” Zhao Shuxian exclaimed indignantly.

"The days are long, what does temporary gain or loss matter? You should steady yourself. In a few months, you will be getting married. There's no need to be so restless. I've heard that the **Lao Furen** from the Lu Family is also very strict with her rules," **Lao Taitai** said, looking down at her granddaughter.

Zhao Shuxian pouted, thinking that originally she heard that marrying into that family would mean no mother-in-law to bother her, and she would be carefree. Who knew there would still be a **Lao Taitai** meddling in everything, which was really annoying! However, she heard that Lu **Lao Furen**'s health wasn't great, so she probably wouldn't have to endure her interference for long.
<br>

**Guogong Yé** commands great authority. Even the younger generations in the family, though discontent with their seats, dare not cause trouble. The Mid-Autumn Festival banquet was enjoyed in great harmony and joy.

At the table of the younger generation on the fifth floor, Zhao Huanxu recited several poems related to the moon and Mid-Autumn Festival during the banquet, which earned praise from several elders seated at **Guogong Yé**'s table.

Only **Guogong Yé** knows about Zhao Huanxu revealing Zhao Huanxi's weakness to Zhu Zhifu. The other relatives are unaware of the whole story behind it. As for the incident with Zheng Man'er, the men don't consider it a big deal either. Who hasn't made mistakes, big or small, in their youth? Therefore, the elders still hold Zhao Huanxu in high regard, but **Guogong Yé**'s expression remains indifferent. Even when he jokes or speaks, it's directed towards Zhao Huanxi.

Zhao Huanxu harbored intense jealousy in his heart, but he just endured it silently.

Zhao Huanxi had been thinking about going to the streets to see the lanterns. After dinner, he informed **Guogong Yé** and, upon receiving permission, happily took Xu Nian'an along with him.

The young couple returned to Yifang Garden. Xu Nian'an was about to change clothes when Zhao Huanxi stopped her, pulling out a large orange wrapped in a handkerchief from his pocket.

"This is..." Xu Nian'an exclaimed in surprise when she smelled that distinctive fragrance.

"I noticed you liked eating it, so I brought this one back for you," Zhao Huanxi said, placing the large orange into her hands.

This is a dish from the dinner just now, Crab-Stuffed Orange. A fresh large orange is cut at the top, hollowed out with some juice left inside. It's then filled with crab meat, crab roe, minced water chestnut, and egg mixture, seasoned with various spices. The cut-off top is placed back as a lid, and the whole orange is steamed until cooked.

At the banquet, each person received one. Xu Nian'an, having never tasted Crab-Stuffed Orange since her childhood, indeed found it delicious and enjoyable.

She held the still warm large orange in her hand and looked at Zhao Huanxi, asking, "Since we're not at the same table, how did you know I like it?”

"I watched you. You were eating Crab-Stuffed Orange very slowly. I'm the same way. When I eat something I like, I eat it very slowly and savor it carefully," Zhao Huanxi said with a smile.

Xu Nian'an's watery eyes glared. "You were watching me? Who asked you to look at me? Did I give you permission to watch me?”

Zhao Huanxi first looked stunned, then his expression turned serious. He spoke in a somewhat aggressive tone, "Yes, I was watching you. What are you going to do about it?”

They locked eyes for a while and couldn't help but burst into laughter.

"Oh, right, here's the spoon for you," Zhao Huanxi said, pulling out a small silver spoon from his sleeve that was specifically used for eating Crab-Stuffed Orange, and handing it to Xu Nian'an. He urged, "Hurry and eat, it won't taste as good when it gets cold.”

"En!" Xu Nian'an didn't want to disappoint his heartfelt gesture, so she cradled the Crab-Stuffed Orange and sat down at the table to eat.

Zhao Huanxi sat beside her, one hand propped on the table, chin resting on his hand as he watched her.

Xu Nian'an asked him, "Crab-Stuffed Orange is so delicious. Don't you like eating it?”

"I like it, but I prefer watching you eat," Zhao Huanxi replied. Under the light, his phoenix-like eyes shimmered brightly, captivating like a starry river that could easily ensnare anyone who gazed at them for too long.

"Why?" Xu Nian'an withdrew her gaze.

"Because when you eat Crab-Stuffed Orange, your movements are so meticulous and refined. On the surface, you appear dignified, yet there's a hidden joy that you can't conceal, like a young girl pretending to be grown-up. And I feel like I’m a **Da Gege**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="bif brother"></sup> who sees through everything and is willing to indulge in it.”

Xu Nian'an felt a bit embarrassed and scolded, "Just because I eat an orange, you suddenly think you've aged a few years?”

Zhao Huanxi was about to speak when from the window came, "Aiyaaaaa…”

He swiftly grabbed a piece of mooncake from the plate on the table and hurled it towards the window.

"Ah! Zhao Huanxi, you're trying to murder **Ge**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older brother"></sup> ah!" came the voice of Yin Luochen laughing outside.

Zhao Huanxi angrily ran to the window and shouted outside, "What kind of '**Ge**' are you? You're just a **Biao Ge** who loves eavesdropping and peeking around corners. Tomorrow I'll tell my mother and make you move to Jiaxiang House!”

"Come on! Who's eavesdropping? Who's peeking? I just came to see if you and **Dimei** are ready," Yin Luochen defended.

"Hmph!" Zhao Huanxi reached out and closed the window.

Xu Nian'an finished eating the Crab-Stuffed Orange, rinsed her mouth, and then called Songyun over, asking, "Have you finished discussing?”

When going out, one naturally needs to bring the maidservants. All the maidservants wanted to visit the night market tonight, but not all of them could be taken along. Xu Nian'an only had Mingli and Yisu with her, and they were definitely going. Zhao Huanxi had more maidservants, so Xu Nian'an asked Songyun and the others to choose two people themselves.

"**Nainai**, Yisu said she isn't going, so we have chosen three people from our side: Xiaowei, Xiaoying, and Nuanxing. I will stay home with Yisu," Songyun replied.

Xu Nian'an looked at Yisu and asked, "You're not going?"

Yisu nodded, "**Xiaojie**, *you* know I have never liked noisy places.”

Seeing that they had already made their decisions, Xu Nian'an didn't say much more. She took Mingli, Xiaowei, Xiaoying, and Nuanxing, along with the two young servants, Zhiyi and Zhi’er, and went out together with Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luoshen.

"Dong’er, there will be many people on the main street tonight, and the carriage will likely have trouble moving. How about I take you on horseback instead?" Zhao Huanxi suggested.

"Can you handle it? Don't end up throwing someone off," Yin Luoshen interjected.

Zhao Huanxi was annoyed, "You shut up!" Then he turned to Xu Nian'an and added, "We'll walk slowly, we won't run, and no one will fall.”

Seeing the look of anticipation in his eyes, Xu Nian'an couldn't bear to refuse and said, "Alright.”

Zhao Huanxi happily helped her onto the horse, then mounted it himself. He reached forward with both arms to grab the reins.

Xu Nian'an's's back was pressed against his front, feeling herself enveloped in his arms. The faint and elegant fragrance from his clothes slowly surrounded her.

"Don't worry, I won't let you fall," Zhao Huanxi reassured her softly, noticing her body seemed a bit tense.

Xu Nian'an's cheeks tinged with a faint blush as she lowered her eyes slightly and replied, "I'm not afraid.”

Beside them, Yin Luochen unconsciously watched them with a playful smile. Zhao Huanxi, without looking away, suddenly raised his hand and swiftly whipped Yin Luochen's horse.

"Aiya! Zhao Huanxi, are you trying to murder your **Biao Ge**?" The spirited horse beneath Yin Luochen suddenly bolted forward, catching him off guard as he struggled to rein it in, shouting all the while.

Zhiyi, Zhier, Xiaowei, and Mingli all found the situation immensely amusing, laughing gleefully at the scene.

Zhao Huanxi then gently urged his horse forward with a nudge from both legs, allowing the horse to carry him and Xu Nian'an slowly forward.

During the Mid-Autumn Festival, every household hangs lanterns of various colors in front of their doors. Children also dragged lanterns shaped like rabbits, lotus flowers, and mice, enjoying themselves on the streets. 

Looking along the dotted path of starry lanterns into the distance, the sky and earth merge into one, with twinkling stars and a bright, clear moon.

"It's great to be born in such a peaceful and prosperous era." Zhao Huanxi said in a good mood.

"Such a peaceful and prosperous era, your Zhao Family deserve credit for it." Xu Nian'an added.

Zhao Huanxi thought about it. For generations, his family, the Jing Guogong Residence, had guarded the borders for the court. His grandfather had spent half his life in military service, and his **Wu Shufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="father's 5th younger brother; 5th uncle."></sup> had fallen on the battlefield. Now, his **Da Jie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="eldest sister"></sup> and **Da Jiefu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="husband of Da Jie"></sup> were stationed in Xuanzhou. In such a peaceful and prosperous era, indeed, the Zhao family had contributed their share.

He glanced sideways at Xu Nian'an. Today, she was appropriately adorned with a pair of gold-backed jade rabbit earrings. Now, the adorable little rabbits swayed rhythmically by her ears with each movement of the horse, occasionally brushing against her fair cheeks.

Zhao Huanxi stared at them for a while, suddenly feeling a bit envious of those rabbits.

Xu Nian'an wanted to talk to him. As she turned her face and saw him looking at her, she asked, "Why are you looking at me like that?"

"You're really good looking," Zhao Huanxi sincerely replied.

Xu Nian'an blushed and said, "You're even more good looking."

"You're good looking."

"You're good looking."

"Aiya, **Xiaojie**, **Gu Yé**, don't argue. You both are good looking!" Mingli interjected loudly, while the other maids giggled softly.

Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Huanxi, "I think having Zhiyi and Zhi'er help us carry things is enough. There's no need to bring the maids along."

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment and nodded, "You're right. Xiaowei, Mingli, you can go back."

Mingli panicked, "**Gu Yé**, I was wrong! **Xiaojie** is even more beautiful, **Xiaojie** is the most beautiful!"

Xu Nian'an said, "Go back, go back.”

Zhao Huanxi smiled and said, "To recognize one's mistake and make amends is the greatest virtue. You can stay."

"Thank you, **Gu Yé**!" Mingli exclaimed joyfully.

Xu Nian'an turned to glare at Zhao Huanxi, who then gently spurred the horse, causing it to suddenly pick up speed. It was Xu Nian'an's first time riding, so she dared not be distracted. She firmly gripped the handle in front of the saddle, sat obediently, and kept her eyes straight ahead.

After turning a couple of corners, they arrived at the meeting point Zhao Huanxi had arranged with Xu Moxiu, the Zhuque Gate.
