---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 81"
snippet: "No Hugging on Bed."
order: 81
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---
Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an lay side by side, and talk about the marriage of his third sister, Zhao Jiazhen.

"Five years ago, Zhao Huanchao was still a minor official under the Central Guards. He was determined to get a position at the Central Army Commander's Office and asked my father to use his connections to help him.

"At that time, **Zufu** was still guarding Liaodong, and Ding Guogong served as the Assistant Commander (second rank official) of the Central Army Commander's Office. His youngest son, Li Ziliang, was notorious for being lecherous and dissolute. He already had several illegitimate children before even getting married, so no one in the capital was willing to marry their daughter to him.

"At this time, my father went and offered to marry my **San Jie** to Li Ziliang. For the Li family, it was like *sending charcoal in snowy weather*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="雪中送炭(xuězhōng-sòngtàn) - (idiom) provide timely help"></sup>, so they naturally agreed. But how could my mother bear to marry my **San Jie** to such a person? Upon hearing the news, she hurriedly started looking for another match for **San Jie**.

"But marriage is a big matter, it is dictated by the parents and matchmakers. Father disagreed, so who could arrange another match? After three proposals were sabotaged by Father, Mother became desperate. During that period, their quarrels echoed through Jiaxiang House almost every day.

"Father was determined to have his way. When he saw Mother obstructing him, he threatened to send me away to study in another place or even to divorce her. With **Zufu** far away in Liaodong and **Zumu** not involved in our branch's affairs, Mother was helpless and fell ill from the stress. In the end, it was **San Jie** who couldn't bear to see our mother suffer and took the initiative to tell Father that she agreed to marry Li Ziliang. Only then did he relent.”

At this point, Zhao Huanxi looked at the top of the tent, his voice sounded both angry and sad: "Just like that, Father exchanged **San Jie**'s entire future for Zhao Huanchao's position as an official in the Central Army Commander's Office.”

After listening, Xu Nian'an reached out a hand to comfortingly place it on his arm and asked, "Five years ago, your **San Jie** must have been sixteen. Why hadn't a suitable match been arranged for her yet?”

Zhao Huanxi steadied his emotions and said, "My **San Jie** was beautiful and cheerful, and Mother adored her. When selecting a match for her, she couldn't help but set her standards high, always finding some fault with potential suitors. This dragged on until she was sixteen. Also, since Father hadn't interfered in the marriages of my two elder sisters, Mother never expected him to suddenly involve himself in my **San Jie**'s marriage for the sake of Zhao Huanchao's career. Afterward, Mother deeply regretted it, but it was too late. Learning from this painful experience, she arranged a marriage for my **Si Jie** with the Wu Family when she was just fourteen, determined to prevent my father from interfering again, even if it meant a less advantageous match. Who knew even that turned out to be a disaster.”

Xu Nian'an said, "Don't say that. Although Wu Cheng is worthless, I find Wu Furen to be a good person. Your **Si Jie** has come to terms with it and just treats Wu Cheng as a means to have children. If we strengthen our position at home and support your **Si Jie**, she'll be able to live well."

Zhao Huanxi turned his head in astonishment to look at her: ".....”

Xu Nian'an, not looking at him, pondered aloud, "Your **Si Jie**'s situation is manageable, but your **San Jie**... If she can't divorce, it would be such a waste of her life.”

Zhao Huanxi was still surprised by Xu Nian'an's comment about his **Si Jie** using Wu Cheng as a tool for bearing children, thinking to himself: So, women can see men as tools. I wonder, what kind of tool am I in Dong'er's heart?

Although he was curious, Zhao Huanxi dared not speak up or ask. 

What if she says I'm just a spitton?

Thinking of this, he felt his self-esteem take a bit of a hit, so he sidled and hovered his way closer to her.

Xu Nian'an suddenly snapped back to reality and extended her hand to stop the person who was about to lean on her. She asked, "What are you doing?"

Zhao Huanxi's eyes were brimming with tears, with a hint of grievance: "I want a hug."

Xu Nian'an: "…No!"

"Why? We haven't hugged today!" Zhao Huanxi protested.

"When I say no, it is no." Xu Nian'an turned over, facing away from him, leaving no room for negotiation.

She definitely didn't want to test the self-control of a sixteen-year-old boy.

"Dong'er." The person behind her didn't give up, reaching out to lightly tug at a strand of her hair.

She reached out and pulled all her long hair to the front.

"Dong **Jiejie**, just one hug," he tugged at the back of her collar again.

Xu Nian'an felt her face heat up when she heard him call her Dong **Jiejie**. She closed her eyes and said, "No."

There was no movement behind her.

Just as Xu Nian'an thought he had given up and began to relax, her waist was suddenly tightened, and a body pressed against her back.

He hugged her and then let go immediately, rolling to the other side of the bed and laughing heartily. "If you're unreasonable, I will be too."

Seeing his mischievous expression, Xu Nian'an got annoyed. She sat up and grabbed the round fan beside her pillow to hit him.

Zhao Huanxi lay there, laughing like a blooming flower, blocking her strikes a couple of times before stretching out his arms and hugging her.

Xu Nian'an was forced to half lie on his chest. Unable to break free, her face turned red as she gasped and said, "Let go of me!”

Zhao Huanxi looked down at her and said softly, "Promise me one thing, and I'll let you go."

Seeing that he was trying to take advantage of the situation, Xu Nian'an struggled again in anger. Unexpectedly, Zhao Huanxi cried out in pain, arched his body, and released her.

Xu Nian'an suddenly remembered that due to his martial arts training, he often had bruises these days. Seeing him in pain, she felt a bit flustered and asked with concern, "Did I hit one of your injuries?"

"Dong **Jiejie**, you're so heartless," Zhao Huanxi said, covering his mouth with his hand and turning his back to her, leaving only a thin silhouette.

Xu Nian'an was about to comfort him but then squinted her eyes suspiciously. Last time when she applied medicinal oil on him, she remembered his bruises were mostly on his arms and back, with almost none on his front. After all, the front is a vulnerable area, and neither **Guogong Yé** nor Zhao Huanrong would deliberately aim for his front during practice.

"I'll get some medicinal oil to massage it," Xu Nian'an said as she started to get off the bed.

Zhao Huanxi quickly turned around and grabbed her sleeve, saying, "No need, it's too late."

"If a light press causes you such pain, the injury must be serious. It needs to be treated, no matter how late it is. Wait a moment." Xu Nian'an tried to pull her sleeve from his grasp, but he held on tightly.

Xu Nian'an glanced at him.

Zhao Huanxi, looking embarrassed, said, "Really, there's no need."

"So, you're pretending?"

"I was wrong, Dong **Jiejie**." Zhao Huanxi moved closer, pressing his delicate face against her hand, "You can hit me."

Xu Nian'an raised the round fan high.

Zhao Huanxi tightly closed his eyes, but all he felt was the light touch of a butterfly (on the fan) on the side of his forehead.

"In the future, if you have something to say, just say it. Don’t pretend," she said, having worried for nothing.

Zhao Huanxi looked up at her, his eyes glistening with tears. "Dong **Jiejie**, can you stop treating me like a tool? If there's something you don't like about what I do, just tell me, okay? I'll change. I don't want to be a tool."

Xu Nian'an met his gaze for a while, then suddenly used the round fan to cover his face.

Zhao Huanxi, unable to see her and unsure of her intentions, heard her softly respond, "Okay."

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

The next morning, Xu Nian'an saw Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen off and then, as usual, went to Lingde Hall to pay her respects to **Lao Taitai**.

After she left, **Lao Taitai** dismissed the others. Zhao Shuxian, unable to contain herself, said eagerly, "**Zumu**, have you thought of a way to deal with that little hussy from the Xu family? She keeps clinging to Lu **Gongzi**, using her connection with Xu Moxiu and Lu **Gongzi** as an excuse. Even though Lu **Gongzi** is a gentleman and won't be swayed easily, over time, he might not be able to resist her shameless flattery."

**Lao Taitai**, seeing her granddaughter acting both spoiled and unruly, admonished her softly, "Calm down, why are you in such a hurry?”

Zhao Shuxian lowered her head and whispered, "I've seen them together twice. Who knows how many more times they've met in private? How can I not be anxious?"

"In just over half a month, the Second Branch's Chengke will come of age (reached the marriage age)," **Lao Taitai** suddenly said.

Zhao Shuxian looked at **Lao Taitai**, not understanding why she mentioned Zhao Chengke's coming-of-age ceremony.

"Ning **Shi** (Er Taitai) only has one older sister. This time, for Chengke's coming-of-age ceremony, it's likely that her older sister will be the one to adorn her hair. Even if she doesn’t, she will still be invited."

"So what?" Zhao Shuxian still didn't understand.

"Doesn’t that Shi **Da Taitai** (**Da Taitai** from Shi Family) have a son who is mentally ill and still unmarried?"

Zhao Shuxian thought for a moment, and her eyes slowly brightened. "*You* mean…"

"If the Xu family girl has someone else to marry, she won’t be a threat to you," **Lao Taitai** concluded decisively.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen had been attending the academy for half a month when the Imperial College began the "Granting of Clothes" holiday, which lasted for one month.
<div class="author-note">
The "Granting of Clothes" Holiday (授衣假)<br>
The term Shòuyī (授衣) literally means "to provide clothing." Historically, it refers to the arrival of the ninth month of the lunar calendar, when the weather begins to turn cold. Because many students at lived far from home, the government granted them a long holiday (usually a month) to return home, collect their winter clothes from their families, and prepare for the coming cold.
</div>

"Dong’er, I went out with Qian **Xiong**, Ge **Xiong** and others a few times, and they’ve all hosted gatherings. I want to host one too. Now that we're on holiday and have the time, where do you think I should invite them to go, and what should we do?" On the first day of the holiday, after paying respects to **Lao Taitai**, Zhao Huanxi asked Xu Nian'an this on their way back.

Xu Nian'an said, "From what you told me, they’ve practically shown you around the entire capital. If you invite them to those same places again, it might be less interesting."

Zhao Huanxi replied eagerly, "That's exactly what I'm worried about."

Xu Nian'an thought for a moment and said, "Don't worry, the holiday is long. We’re attending a banquet at Ying Guogong Residence tomorrow. After that, I’ll think of some ideas for you."
<br>

The next morning, when **Er Taitai**, Ning **Shi**, brought her two daughters-in-law and her unmarried daughter Zhao Chengke to Lingde Hall, she only saw Zhao Shuxian, Zhao Hanxu and his wife. **Wu Taitai**, being a widow, naturally didn’t wander around the residence much. No one from the First Branch had come either.

Ning **Shi** asked, "**Pomu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Mother-in-law"></sup>, aren’t the people from yhe First Branch going to the banquet at Ying Guogong Residence?"

**Lao Taitai** replied, "**Da Taitai** needs to manage the household affairs. How can she leave?"

"But if **Da Taitai** can't go, at least Xi **Ge’er** and his wife could go," Ning **Shi** suggested.

**Lao Taitai** gave her a look and said, "When attending a banquet at another family's residence, one must maintain a sense of decorum and dignity. Do you expect to bring the entire family and take up several tables?"

Ning **Shi** glanced at Zhao Shuxian's brightly embroidered and dazzling golden peacock feather brocade dress, then closed her mouth without saying more.

As the group, led by **Lao Taitai**, left the Lingde Hall, they encountered Yin Furen and the young couple Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an.

Yin Furen brought the two youngsters forward to greet **Lao Taitai**.

"And what brings you here?" **Lao Taitai** asked, looking at the dignified yet striking Yin Furen, followed by her son and daughter-in-law, who looked like a pair of *Golden Boy and Jade Maiden*. She found the sight exceptionally eyesore.
<div class="author-note">
金童玉女 (jīntóng yùnǚ): Originally the young attendants of immortal beings in Taoist mythology, it is a common idiom used to describe a young couple who are both exceptionally good-looking and perfectly matched.
</div>

Yin Furen enjoyed seeing the biased **Lao Taitai** struggle to hide her displeasure and smiled as she replied, "Replying to **Pomu**, **Erxi** wasn’t planning to go either, as there are household affairs to manage. But Jing Furen from Ying Guogong Residence personally sent an invitation, and not going would be offensive. So, One got up early to take care of the household duties and managed to join **Pomu** in time."

With that, **Lao Taitai** couldn’t say anything more. Keeping a stern face, she said, "It’s getting late, let’s go.”

