---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 89"
snippet: "Zhao Mingkun, Scram!"
order: 89
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Seeing Yin Furen vomiting blood and fainting, everyone inevitably fell into a state of panic.

Xu Nian'an was the first to regain composure and said to Zhao Huanxi, "Quickly carry Mom back to Jiaxiang House."

She then instructed Qianhe and Nanny Su, "Qianhe, hurry and fetch a physician. Nanny Su, quickly send someone to the Wu Residence to inform Nanny Xian that **Si Jiejie** should not see anyone from the Guogong Residence in the next few days. She is pregnant and cannot handle any shocks."

The two hurried off, and Xu Nian'an followed Zhao Huanxi to settle Yin Furen back at Jiaxiang House.

A moment later, in the main chamber of Jiaxiang House, the physician had not yet arrived. Xu Nian'an had a maid bring water, and she sat by the bed, using a damp cloth to wipe Yin Furen's face and hands and tidy her hair.

"Dong **Jiejie**, will my mother be alright?" Zhao Huanxi stood nearby, looking at the pale and weak Yin Furen on the bed, his voice trembling as he asked.

He had never seen Yin Furen in such a state.

From childhood to now, in his eyes and heart, his mother had always been strong. Even if she wasn't omnipotent, she was always there to support him, shielding him from all hardships.

Watching Xu Nian'an wipe her face and comb her hair, Zhao Huanxi realised that his mother no longer looked as young as he remembered.

Wrinkles had begun to appear on her face, and grey hairs were starting to show at her temples. She had quietly begun to age long before he had noticed.

Xu Nian'an turned her head and saw that the person who hadn't shed a tear earlier at Yilan Pavilion, despite having red eyes, was now filled with tears.

She said, "**Sanlang**, don't worry. Mother will be fine. Sometimes, when people experience extreme joy or sorrow, their blood flow can become blocked, and their breath can get stuck in their chest, causing them to vomit blood or faint. It's just like this with Mother. After taking a few doses of medicine to recuperate, she will be fine."

Zhao Huanxi felt slightly relieved, nodded, and raised his sleeve to dab at his eyes, preventing the tears from falling.

When Physician Zhang, whom Yin Furen was accustomed to seeing, came to check her pulse, Zhao Huanxi realised the situation was not as optimistic as Xu Nian'an had suggested.

"Furen has been overworked for many years, leading to chronic fatigue, weakness, and night sweats. Now, overwhelmed by grief, her qi and blood have reversed, causing internal disorders. The situation is quite severe, and it does not look promising!" Physician Zhang sighed, stroking his grey beard.

Zhao Huanxi asked urgently, "Is there no danger to her life?"

Physician Zhang replied, "If she is carefully nursed, there should not be. However, she must avoid extreme joy and sorrow and excessive exertion. The recuperation process will not be short.”

Xu Nian'an said, "Thanking Zhang **Daifu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="大夫-physician/doctor"></sup> for the effort. As long as she can be cured, we are willing to do whatever it takes."

Physician Zhang nodded, "Then I will go and prepare a prescription."

"*We have bothered you*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="有劳了(yǒuláo le)-(polite) thank you for your trouble (used when asking a favor or after having received one)"></sup>," Xu Nian'an replied with a bow, watching as Zhao Huanxi accompanied Physician Zhang out to prepare the prescription.

Nanny Su and Qianhe both had reddened eyes from crying. Now, seeing that only Xu Nian'an remained in the room, they finally dared to approach the bed to check on Yin Furen.

"Nanny Su, what exactly happened to my mother-in-law? How did it come to this?" Xu Nian'an asked Nanny Su.

Su Mama shook her head. "**Laonu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this old servsnt"></sup> don't know either. When we arrived at the Ding Guogong Residence, Furen was fine. But after coming out of **San Gu Nainai**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="The term used by the family of a married daughter to address to her."></sup>'s courtyard, her expression changed. On the way back, she didn't say a word. When we returned to the residence and went to Jiaxiang House, her hands shook, and she dropped her teacup while drinking tea. Then, she rushed to Yilan Pavilion and started tearing into **Laoyé**."

Hearing this, Xu Nian'an realised it was most likely related to something that happened to **San Jie**, Jiazhen. She decided not to ask further and focused on taking care of Yin Furen.
<br>

An hour later, **Lao Taitai** came to visit Yin Furen, accompanied by **Wu Taitai**. Given their seniority, as a granddaughter-in-law, Xu Nian'an could not stop them.

When **Lao Taitai** entered the room, she glanced at Yin Furen, who was still unconscious on the bed, and asked, "What did the physician say?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "The physician said Mother-in-law is weak and needs careful nursing."

"In that case, she won't be able to manage the household. Let **Wu Taitai** take over," Lao Taitai said.

Xu Nian'an, keeping her head bowed respectfully, responded, "Yes, when Mother wakes up, **Sunxi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="grandson's wife"></sup> will send someone to ask **Wu Shenshen** to come over and handle the transition."

Seeing Xu Nian'an's obedient and proper response, **Lao Taitai** paused briefly before leaving with **Wu Taitai**.

After seeing them off, Nannu Su hurried back to Xu Nian'an and said anxiously, "How can we hand over the management rights? **Taitai** has managed the entire Guogong Residence for so many years, working tirelessly day and night, to the point of falling ill. If we hand it over now, wouldn’t it be like making a wedding dress for someone else?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "Mother is already in this condition. Can Nanny Su still bear to see her continue to work while sick for the sake of the household? Zhang **Daifu** made it clear earlier that she cannot be overworked anymore. Nothing is more important than Mother's health."

Nanny Su understood this reasoning, but she was still unwilling to accept it. "We’re just letting the Fifth Branch take advantage for nothing!”
<br>

In the evening, when **Guogong Yé** returned from his duties and came to check on Yin Furen, she had not yet regained consciousness.

Xu Nian'an explained to him the events that had transpired and Yin Furen's condition. She added, "**Zumu** came by this afternoon and asked to hand over the management rights to **Wu Shenshen**. Considering **Pomu**'s current state, it really isn’t suitable for her to continue managing the household, so **Sunxi** suggested waiting until she wakes up to handle the transition with **Wu Shenshen**. Since **Pomu** always reported such matters to **Zufu** when something happened, **Sunxi** thought One should inform **Zufu** as well."

**Guogong Yé** furrowed his brows slightly and remained silent for a moment before saying, "Do not hand over the management rights to the Fifth Branch. Since she entered the residence, she has never managed the household. If she proves to be incapable, it could cause chaos in the residence. Your mother-in-law is too weak to take on the burden, but isn’t there still you? You can assist her and help share some of her duties. With your mother-in-law guiding you, it would be much better than handing it over to the Fifth Branch, who has never been involved. You don't need to worry about this matter anymore, I will send someone to speak with your **Zumu**.”

Xu Nian'an hesitated for a moment before agreeing, "Understood."

Guogong Ye then asked, "Do you know why your father-in-law and mother-in-law were arguing?"

"**Pomu** is still unconscious, so **Sunxi** doesn't know the exact details. However, she was fine this morning before leaving, and after returning from **San Gu Jie**'s, she became like this. One suspects it might be related to **San Gu Jie**," Xu Nian'an replied.

**Guogong Yé** nodded and instructed Xu Nian'an, "Take good care of your mother-in-law," before leaving.

When he returned to Dunyi Hall, **Guogong Yé** found Zhao Mingkun, whose face was covered in bruises, waiting in the courtyard with Zhao Huanyang, who had his arm in a sling.

"Dad…" Seeing him return, Zhao Mingkun stepped forward to greet him.

**Guogong Yé** ignored him completely and went straight to his study.

Zhao Mingkun, feeling awkward, hesitated but then followed **Guogong Yé** to the study, saying, "Dad, that rascal Zhao Huanxi actually attacked me at Yilan Pavilion today and left Huanyang in this state.”

**Guogong Yê** took off the sword from his waist and placed it on the knife rack, then turned to look at Zhao Mingkun. "What do you intend to do with what I taught you?"

Zhao Mingkun was taken aback by this response, staring at **Guogong Yé** in shock and disbelief. "Dad?"

**Guogong Yé** then said to the equally surprised Zhao Huanyang, "You may go back now.”

Zhao Huanyang did not dare to hesitate and, after saluting, withdrew.

**Guogong Yé** sat down behind his writing desk, looked up at his eldest son, and after a long pause, sighed and said, "From the time you were young, I knew you were not progressing. However, considering my constant military duties and my neglect in disciplining you, I couldn't bear to be harsh. Your mother favoured you, and before she passed away, she repeatedly told me of your virtues and urged me not to give up on you. I believed it was my failure as a father that caused your ineptitude and lack of ambition.

"To address this, I went to great lengths to find out and even shamelessly sought the hand of the esteemed eldest daughter of Marquis Jinling's family for you, hoping that with such a virtuous wife by your side, you would improve. She did not disappoint me; over the years, regardless of the circumstances, she has always fulfilled her duties as the eldest daughter-in-law, with a kind heart and righteous character, managing the household meticulously. But what about you?”

Zhao Mingkun kept his head down, unable to refute, though he felt quite resentful. The wounds on his face and neck continued to throb painfully, and he couldn’t help but think to himself: What kind of virtuous wife is she? Just a shrew!

"I was also foolish," **Guogong Yé** continued, "because of a momentary lapse in judgment, I have felt a sense of guilt towards you for many years. It wasn’t until I found a wife for Huanxi that I realised that whether a person can improve has little to do with whether they had a father’s guidance when they were young. Although I failed in my duties to you, your treatment of Huanxi is even worse than my treatment of you.

"He married a good wife, listens to advice and understands that as a man and future head of the household, he should stand up and strive to do so. And you? You are both useless and presumptuous, thinking that as the eldest son, this title will surely pass on to you in the future?”

Zhao Mingkun was startled and instinctively said, "**Er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="This son"></sup> dares not."

**Guogong Yé** replied, "Even if you dared, it would be of no use. Today, I am telling you clearly that for the sake of the Zhao Family's future, I will not pass on this title to you under any circumstances!"

Hearing **Guogong Yé**'s resolute words, Zhao Mingkun, who had just said he dared not, couldn't help but lift his head in shock and stare at **Guogong Yé**. He seemed to want to ask something, but his lips moved without making a sound, unable to utter a single word.

"Your wife is in charge of the household affair. You should make concessions for her, even if you dislike her. For the good of the entire household, you should accommodate her. You are such a useless person, making her so angry that she fell ill!"

"But she came and hit me first! As a woman, she lacks proper virtues…"

"Be quiet! If you hadn’t married Jiazhen off to that scoundrel of the Ding Guogong’s family, would she have come to deal with you? You sacrificed the future of the legitimate daughter for the sake of the illegitimate son's prospects, one who is ruthless enough to act and one who is shameless enough to accept. Such selfishness and cruelty! You and Zhao Huanchao should be grateful you are my descendants and not my soldiers! If you were my soldiers, let alone one head, even ten heads would have been chopped off by now!”

When **Guogong Yê** is enraged, the aura of his battlefield experience invisibly emanates, suffocating Zhao Mingkun to the point where he can barely catch his breath, let alone defend himself.

**Guogong Yé** took a breath and said, "I’ve thought it over. Keeping you at home is not only useless but also a source of family discord. Due to the corruption case involving Tangjin, many positions have opened up in Pingliang Prefecture. I will arrange for you to secure an official position there. Take that concubine in the lower manors with you and go to Pingliang Prefecture to serve as an official.”

“Dad—” Zhao Mingkun was stunned. What kind of place was Pingliang Prefecture? He certainly did not want to go.

“Don’t want to go?” **Guogong Yé** coldly stared at him. “If you don’t go, then Zhao Huanchao will have to go. One of you must go. It’s up to you to decide who.”
