---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 92"
snippet: "Father's  farewell, Son's laughter"
order: 92
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Yin Furen and Xu Nian'an looked at each other. Xu Nian'an whispered, "Should **Erxi** go and tell **Gongdiē** that Mon has already gone to bed?"

Yin Furen thought for a moment and said to Xu Nian'an, "No need, you go back and rest first." Then she instructed Qianhe, "Let him in."

Xu Nian'an was still unaware that Zhao Mingkun was about to be sent to Pingliang Prefecture by **Zufu**, so she was a bit worried.

Yin Furen said, "Don't worry, it's fine. Go on.”

Only then did Xu Nian'an respond and head out. On her way out, she encountered Zhao Mingkun coming in and gave him a slight bow, to which he did not respond.

When he reached the inner room, he stood about five or six feet away from the bed, looking at Yin Furen lying on it. His face showed neither the impatience he usually had nor any hint of guilt.

Yin Furen stared at him expressionlessly and said, "If you're here to see whether I'm dead or not, I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed."

Zhao Mingkun averted his gaze, looking somewhat awkward, and stiffly said, "I am going to work in Pingliang Prefecture.”

Yin Furen replied indifferently, "Congratulations."

Hearing her tone, Zhao Mingkun could tell she already knew about it. He couldn't help but feel a mix of shame and annoyance and said, "Don't be smug. I will be back!"

Yin Furen merely responded, "Ha!"

Seeing her sarcastic expression, Zhao Mingkun felt a surge of anger. However, remembering the purpose of his visit, he forcibly restrained himself and said, "After I leave, you must take good care of Huanchao and Huanyang. As for Jiahui's marriage, you need to put in your best effort to arrange it. You are their legitimate mother, after all, this is your duty.”

Yin Furrn first looked at him in disbelief, then began to laugh sarcastically. She said, "Zhao Mingkun, have you grown senile with age? I, as the legitimate mother, should supposedly treat the shu children you love well. Yet you, as their father, when have you ever treated the legitimate children I bore well? You're right, I am the legitimate mother, and there are many things I can do to the shu children. Go ahead and take your post without worry. I will show you how I will 'take good care' of your shu children!"

"You—" Zhao Mingkun had just taken two steps towards the bed when a figure burst in from outside the door.

It was Zhao Huanxi, who had been eavesdropping outside, fearing his father might lay a hand on his mother again.

"What are you doing in here? Get out!" Zhao Mingkun shouted at him.

Zhao Huanxi stood between Yin Furen and Zhao Mingkun, looking directly at Zhao Mingkun and said, "You're the one who should leave. No one here welcomes you!"

Yin Furen was surprised as she looked at her son's back. It was only then she realised that her son had grown so tall without her noticing, only a few inches shorter than his father.

"You unfilial son! Are you really trying to rebel?" Zhao Mingkun raised his hand to strike.

Zhao Huanxi stood there without moving, looking at him coldly, waiting for him to strike.

Given the current situation, how could Zhao Mingkun dare to actually hit him? He was about to leave the estate, and afterward, Yin Furen would be the one in charge of First Branch.

Seeing the unfamiliar and cold gaze of his legitimate son, Zhao Mingkun couldn't quite understand his own feelings. After a brief standoff, he lowered his hand and turned to leave.

Seeing him leave, Zhao Huanxi's shoulders relaxed slightly, and only then did Yin Furen realise he had been tense the whole time.

"Huanxi," she called out to him.

Zhao Huanxi turned around and walked to Yin Furen's bedside, sitting down on the edge of the bed.

"You just now..." Yin Furen's impression of her son was still that of someone who would endure beatings and scoldings from his father without daring to lift his head. His behaviour just now had truly surprised her.

"Mom, I was too weak in the past and always needed you to protect me. But now I've grown up, and I've also practised martial arts. From now on, it's my turn to protect *you*. As long as I'm here, no one will dare to bully you, not even Father," Zhao Huanxi said earnestly.

Tears welled up in Yin Furrn's eyes, and she nodded emotionally. In that moment, it felt as if all the suffering she had endured over the past twenty to thirty years had vanished like smoke. Despite all the misfortunes of marrying Zhao Mingkun, having a son like Huanxi made up for it all.
<br>

At noon, Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an were having a meal in a room at Shenhui Courtyard.

Zhao Huanxi said, "Dong'er, my father is about to be assigned by **Zufu** to serve as an official in Pingliang Prefecture."

Xu Nian'an suddenly looked up, her eyes bright: "Really?"

Zhao Huanxi's expression twisted slightly: "Are you happy about it too?"

Xu Nian'an concealed a smile in her eyes and countered, "Aren't you happy about it?"

Zhao Huanxi looked away, lowering his head as he poked at the rice in his bowl with his chopsticks, muttering, "I am happy, which makes me feel very unfilial.”

Xu Nian'an said, "Between father and son, if they can't achieve a relationship of a *benevolent father and a filial son* (父慈子孝-fù cí zǐ xiào), then it can only be a situation of *father's  farewell and son's laughter* (父辞子笑-fú cí zǐ xiào). This is just human nature."
<div class="author-note">
Xu Nian'an is playing with words. She's using a play on similar-sounding phrases with different meanings.
</div>

Zhao Huanxi didn't quite understand and looked up, asking, "What do you mean?”

Xu Nian'an explained, "The first 'fùcí zǐxiào', the ‘cí ’ is from 'cí ài'<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="affection/loving"></sup>, and the 'xiào' from ‘xiàoshun’<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="means to show filial obedience"></sup>. The second 'fùcí zǐxiào', the ‘cí ’ is from 'cíbié'<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="to bid farewell"></sup>, and the 'xiào' from ‘kāihuái dàxiào’<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="to laugh heartily to one's heart content"></sup>.

After her explanation, Zhao Huanxi couldn't help but laugh, turning his face to the side and propping his forehead with his hand.

Xu Nian'an said, "Look, are you not smiling? Isn't that a smile?"

Hearing this, Zhao Huanxi laughed even more.

After their light-hearted meal, Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Huanxi, "In three days, it will be the Double Ninth Festival<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="重阳节-Festival on 9th day of the 9th Month"></sup>. After that, there is the coming-of-age ceremony for Chengke **Tangmei**, and on the thirteenth of the Ninth Month, my fourth sister is getting married. So, would the 15th be a good day for you to arrange the lake outing with your friends?"

Zhao Huanxi nodded in agreement.

"Then, during this time, take care of the guarantee letter<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="保证书 or written pledge; likely regarding his friends' promise not to do anything inappropriate."></sup> and invitations you mentioned last time, and don't forget to invite my brother as well," Xu Nian'an reminded him.

"Alright, what about Lu Feng? Can I invite him?" Zhao Huanxi asked.

"Of course, invite him if you want to. Since you are hosting this time, it's up to you who to invite," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi was pleased to hear that he had the freedom to make the decisions and excitedly agreed.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

**Guogong Yé** valued speed in military matters. Right after the Double Ninth Festival, he swiftly kicked Zhao Mingkun out the door. Before Zhao Mingkun left, **Guogong Yê** also warned him that while incompetence might be tolerated in his new post (after all, he was only a minor official handling ceremonial duties in the prefecture, so his incompetence wouldn't cause much harm), he must not abuse his power or bully the local people. If he dared to do so, there would be worse places awaiting him.

Zhao Mingkun, unable to disobey his father's orders, went to the lower manors to fetch Concubine Du and set off for Pingliang Prefecture, looking downtrodden and defeated.

With Zhao Mingkun gone, Yin Furen felt as if the skies had cleared, the flowers had bloomed, and everything had improved. She got out of bed that very day.

While some were rejoicing, others were troubled. **Wu Taitai** went to Lingde Hall to see **Lao Taitai**.

"It is clear Yin Furen was the one who started the trouble first. Now, with her illness, **Guogong Yê** has had Xu Nian'an help manage the household and even sent **Da Laoyê** away. Is he really planning to pass the title to Zhao Huanxi?" **Wu Taitai** said, worried.

"What are yoy worrying for? Just keep calm,” **Lao Taitai** said, twisting her Buddhist beads. "To bring down the First Branch, it only takes destroying one person.”

Upon hearing this, **Wu Taitai** cautiously asked, "Xu **Shi**?"

"Start with her sister first. Once her sister is in trouble, Xu Nian'an will likely be too preoccupied to manage the household. If Yin Furen is smart, she will hand over the management duties willingly. If not, she can hold on stubbornly, but that will only worsen her condition," **Lao Taitai** replied.

**Wu Taitai** understood **Lao Taitai**'s implication. If Yin Furen did not relinquish her control and insisted on managing the household while ill, her health would inevitably deteriorate. Once she passed away, the First Branch would be left with just the young couple, surrounded by their elders. No matter how capable they were, they would struggle to assert themselves.

"How are the preparations coming along?" **Lao Taitai** asked.

**Wu Taitai** snapped out of her thoughts and quickly replied, "The young girl from the Xu Family is easy to handle. Just send an invitation, and she'll come willingly. We'll bring her in through the back door and have her taken directly to the empty room in the small garden. The only tricky part is that fool, we need to wait until he's alone and find a way to persuade him..."

**Lao Taitai** said, "A fool, what remains besides his instincts? How difficult can it be to persuade him?"

**Wu Taitai** bowed her head, "Mom is right.”

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

On the evening of the tenth day of the Ninth Month, the day before Zhao Chengke's coming-of-age ceremony, a maid from Jing Guoging Residence arrived at the Xu Family's door.

The Xu Family lived in the outer city, while Jiyuan Garden (the place for the private lecture) was in the inner city. To make travel more convenient, Xu Moxiu often stayed at Lu Feng's home and did not return every day. On this day, he was not present.

"Our family's **Er Taitai** has been so busy that she only just remembered to send an invitation for **Guniang**. Recently, with **Da Taitai** illness, our **Liu Guniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="6th young lady"></sup>'s coming-of-age ceremony has relied entirely on Xi **San Nainai**'s arrangements. Knowing that Furen<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="here she's referring to Xu Nian'an's mother"></sup> is unwell and **Si Guniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th young lady; Xu Nian'an's 4th sister. "></sup> is about to marry, we didn't dare to disturb, so we only invited **Wu Guniang** to come over. Since it's all family and no outsiders, Xi **San Nianai** will be pleased to see her own sister," the maid explained to Xu Hui’an.

Xu Hui’an looked at the exquisitely gilded invitation in her hand, nodded, and said, "Please convey my thanks to **Er Taitai** when you return.”

The maid added, "Tomorrow, our **Liu Guniang**'s coming-of-age ceremony will be held in the small garden of the residence, which is close to the back door. Xu **Guniang** should enter through the back door. If one uses the front door, one’ll have to take a long detour."

Xu Hui’an nodded and responded gently, "Thank you for the reminder."

After sending off the maid from Guogong Residence, Xu Hui’an took the invitation to find Zheng Furen. Upon hearing the details, Zheng Furen said, "At this point, it’s too late to send someone to ask your sister. You can go yourself. After all, it’s just a coming-of-age ceremony, and you were invited to join the occasion. It should be fine. Also, since your sister's mother-in-law has been ill, only your brother has visited her on my behalf. Please go and check on her tomorrow on my behalf.”

Xu Hui’an was pleased at the thought of seeing her sister the next day and agreed eagerly.

Early the next morning, she carefully dressed, took the gifts prepared by Zheng Furen, and, accompanied by her maid Danping, hired a carriage to the back door of the Jing Guogong Residence.

Upon arrival, Danping knocked on the door, and a Pozi came to open it. Xu Hui’an presented the invitation, explaining that she was there in response to the invitation. The Pozi then allowed them to enter.

Xu Hui’an asked the Pozi for directions to the back garden. The Pozi pointed her in the right direction and said, "Xu **Guniang** can go on your own; the maid can stay here. Someone will attend to you on that side."

Xu Hui’an looked back at Danping, considering that this was likely the Guogong Residence’s custom. She took the gift box from Danping and said, "You wait here for a moment. Once I've seen my sister, I'll come back to take you to her courtyard."

Danping nodded, looking at the large and unfamiliar Guogong Residence with concern, "**Guniang**, be careful.”

Xu Hui’an agreed and, carrying the gift box, began to follow the direction pointed out by the Pozi. On the way, she saw a maid carrying a tray along a nearby path and called out to her.

"Excuse me, could you tell me where the small garden is in the residence?"

The maid asked, "Is **Guniang** here to attend **Liu Guniang**'s coming-of-age ceremony?"

"Yes, that's right," Xu Hui’an replied.

"Then please follow me."

Xu Hui’an followed the maid, who led her through the garden, guiding her amidst the flowers and willows.

