---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 95"
snippet: "Xu Nian'an's face flushed, her heart raced."
order: 95
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In Dunyi Hall, Xu Nian'an greet **Guogong Yé** as she arrived at his study.  

Summoning his granddaughter-in-law at night, **Guogong Yé**, to avoid suspicion, had Xiangzhong stand by the side.  

"Your **Er Shenshen** mentioned the matter regarding your **Wu Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th younger sister."></sup> earlier. She doesn't know who is targeting her, but I thought you might know, so I called you here to ask. If you know anything, just say it," **Guogong Yé** said directly.

Xu Nian'an replied, "**Zufu**, without evidence, **Sunxi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="granddaughter-in-law"></sup> dare not speculate recklessly."  

"I don’t need you to provide evidence. I just need you to give me a reason. Why would your **Wu Mei** encounter such trouble in this Jing Guogong Residence?" **Guogong Yé** said sternly.  

Xu Nian'an hesitated for a moment, then looked up at **Guogong Yé** without glancing at Xiangzhong. She said, "If **Zufu** insists on asking, **Sunxi** can only tell what **Sunxi** knows. As for the truth, only **Zufu** can judge." She then recounted to **Guogong Yé**, in full detail, how Xu Hui’an had met the Lu Family at Zhaohua Temple, and how Zhao Shuxian had caused trouble because of it.

"When Shuxian **Tangmei** came to cause trouble, she was coincidentally seen by **Pomu**'s nephew, Yin **Gongzi**. He has been visiting friends these past two days. If **Zufu** wants to verify, **Zufu** can ask him when he returns," Xu Nian'an added at the end.

"That won't be necessary," **Guogong Yé** lowered his eyelids, his fatigue showing momentarily, and said, "I understand now. You may leave."

After bowing, Xu Nian'an turned and slowly left Dunyi Hall.

She knew that even if there were evidence, let alone without it, **Guogong Yé** wouldn’t openly act on it for the sake of preserving the late **Wu Laoyé**'s reputation. So she never expected to completely bring down the Fifth Branch because of this matter. She only hoped **Guogong Yé** would cancel the marriage between the Fifth Branch and Lu Feng.

Letting them face what they feared most could be considered a form of revenge.

If **Guogong Yé** couldn't even do that, then she would have no choice but to disregard previous kindness and personally take matters into her own hands.

She went to Jiaxiang House to report the situation to Yin Furen. While walking back to Shenhui Courtyard with her maid, deep in thought, someone suddenly jumped out from the corner of the alley next to Jiaxiang House.

Startled, Xu Nian'an let out a gasp, and the maid behind her screamed as well.

Zhao Huanxi burst out laughing.

"Annoying! You're a grown man, don't you have any sense?" Xu Nian'an angrily chased after him, while Zhao Huanxi laughed and ran away.

The maids, seeing the situation, tactfully returned to Shenhui Courtyard first.  

The young couple played around for a while, and Zhao Huanxi grabbed Xu Nian'an's hand, smiling as he asked, "Dong'er, are you tired? How about I carry you back?"  

"No, I'm not tired," Xu Nian'an replied.  

"You've been busy all day, you must be tired. Let me carry you back!" Without waiting for a response, Zhao Huanxi bent down and scooped her up.  

This was the first time Xu Nian'an had ever been carried like this, and she was so startled that she tightly wrapped her arms around his neck. Embarrassed and angry, she said, "What are you doing? Put me down!”

Zhao Huanxi smugly said, "I only realised later why, when you twisted your ankle, you asked me to carry you on my back instead of in my arms. You were worried that I wouldn't be able to hold you and would drop you, right? Always underestimating me. You're so light, I could carry two of you!"  

Xu Nian'an angrily retorted, "Then go and find two to carry!"  

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I misspoke, not two, I can carry you and still run!" With that, he actually started running while holding Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an was so frightened she nearly screamed. She clenched her teeth tightly, holding on to him with both arms, turning her head to bury her face in his chest.  

Zhao Huanxi carried her all the way back to Shenhui Courtyard, only putting her down once they reached the main room. He was slightly out of breath but still smiling.  

Xu Nian'an's legs had gone weak. Furious and embarrassed, she pinched his arm and said with a stern face, "If you do this again, I'll be really angry!”

Zhao Huanxi covered the spot where she had pinched him, looking confused. "Why?" He thought it was quite fun.  

Xu Nian'an's face was flushed, her heart racing, though she couldn’t tell if it was from embarrassment or fear. She turned her back to him and said, "Just don't."  

"Hmph! You're being unreasonable!" Zhao Huanxi bent down and rested his chin on her shoulder from behind, sneaking a sidelong glance at her. Xu Nian'an pushed him away with a finger to his forehead.

"What did Zhao Huanxu say?" She turned around and asked him.  

At the mention of his name, Zhao Huanxi showed an unhappy expression and said, "What else could he say? Just 'Sorry, I'm busy, can't make it.' I had just mentioned Qian **Xiong** and Huo **Xiong**, too. If he doesn't want to come, then fine. He looks down on people. Wenlin and Lu **Xiong** are both more talented than him, and I've never seen them act so arrogant.”

"Well, it's his choice not to go. You've already asked him," Xu Nian'an said. After speaking, she noticed Zhao Huanxi standing beside her, gazing at her intensely. Feeling a bit uncomfortable, she averted her eyes and asked, "Aren't you going to practice martial arts tonight?”

"I went to **Zufu**'s courtyard earlier and the steward told me that **Zufu** has something to do tonight and can't teach us. I’ve arranged to spar with Huanrong **Tangxiong** in the garden later," Zhao Huanxi said.  

"Then go ahead. I'm going to bathe," Xu Nian'an replied seriously, turning to head outside to call the maid to prepare water. But before she could take more than two steps, Zhao Huanxi grabbed her arm and pulled her back into his arms.  

"Let me hold you first, or I won’t be able to beat him," he said as if it were completely reasonable.

"You—" Xu Nian'an felt that Zhao Huanxi was becoming more and more brazen in front of her, yet she was helpless against him.  

"Dong **Jiejie** is the best. You wouldn’t want me to get beaten, so let’s hug a little longer," he said, tightening his hold on her. His voice was soft and sweet, but his tone was clearly filled with delight.

Xu Nian'an wanted to reach out and pinch him again. Her hand was already raised and touched his sleeve, but after pausing for a moment, she simply clenched his sleeve instead.  
<br>

The next morning, after returning from handling matters with Yin Furen, Xu Nian'an found Zhao Huanxi in the study writing invitations.

She arrived outside the study, peeking through the window.  

The young man, with skin as smooth as jade and a poised demeanor, was sitting properly behind the desk, his delicate wrist gracefully writing with precision.  

Xu Nian'an noticed that since Yin Furen fell ill, he seemed to have matured significantly. He used to float around like willow catkins, but now he had finally grounded himself.

Although when he was with her, he was still the same as before—playful, laughing, and using that soft, sweet voice to act spoiled, when he was alone, his entire demeanor became calm and composed.  

People always hope for a life free from illness and hardship, but it’s often only after going through difficulties that one begins to grow and mature.

Yin Furen had suffered this time, but what she gained far outweighed what she lost. It could be said that after the hardship, she finally reaped the rewards.  

After finishing writing the invitations, Zhao Huanxi rode on horseback to Jiyuan Garden by himself. He handed the invitation to Xu Moxiu and asked him to pass along Lu Feng's invitation as well.

Xu Moxiu returned to the garden with the invitation in hand, just as Lu Feng was coming out from the tea room. Seeing him, Lu Feng said, "The tea is ready, but you disappeared."  

Xu Moxiu replied, "My **Jiefu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="older sister's husband."></sup> just delivered some invitations, and there's one for you as well.”

Lu Feng came over, took the invitation, and after glancing at it, said in surprise, "Your **Jiefu**'s handwriting is quite elegant. What style is this? I’ve never seen it before."  

Xu Moxiu had already noticed earlier. After not seeing him for several months, his **Jiefu**'s handwriting had truly improved a lot.

"I haven't seen it either. Perhaps he created it himself," Xu Moxiu replied.  

"15th day of the Ninth Month, a boat ride on the Bian River. Are you going?" Lu Feng asked Xu Moxiu.  

Xu Moxiu pulled him aside and whispered, "My **Jie** asked my **Jiefu** to organise this event, but her real intention is to have him stay at Jiyuan Garden for a few days as an auditor. Would you be willing to help me put on a little act?”

Lu Feng replied, "I'd be happy to help."  
<br>

After lunch, while everyone was resting, Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng went together to find their teacher, Chen Yanmei.  

"**Xiansheng**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="master/teacher"></sup>, **Xuesheng**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="student (like 'this student of yours')"></sup> would like to request a day off on the 15th day of the Ninth Month," Xu Moxiu said.  

"**Xuesheng** would like to do the same," Lu Feng added.

Chen Yanmei, curious, asked, "What are you planning to do?" Both Xu and Lu were his prized students, known for their diligence in studying, rarely asking for leave unless there was a family matter. For the two of them to request leave together was quite unusual.  

Xu Moxiu replied, "My **Jiefu** invited me for a boat ride on the Bian River." 
 
Lu Feng followed up, "His **Jiefu** invited me for a boat ride on the Bian River.”

Chen Yanmei glared at them. "You're both asking for leave just for a boat ride on the Bian River?"  

The two nodded in unison.  

Chen Yanmei was momentarily at a loss for words and asked, "What's so special about the Bian River? Is it worth wasting a whole day?"  

Xu Moxiu responded, "The Bian River itself isn't much, but **Jiefu** managed to invite Miaoyin **Niangzi**, Liu Fuyi. **Xuesheng** wants to hear her play the pipa.”

Lu Feng added, "**Xuesheng** feels the same."  

Chen Yanmei's right eyebrow twitched several times. He wanted to confirm with Xu Moxiu if they had truly invited the famous Miaoyin **Niangzi**, but feeling it might undermine his dignity as their teacher, he coughed and feigned indifference, saying, "In that case, I’ll grant your leave."  

"Thank you, **Xiansheng**," the two of them bowed and turned to walk side by side towards the pavilion, leaving Chen Yanmei behind, itching with curiosity as he watched their retreating figures.

Lu Feng said to Xu Moxiu, "He invited me for a boat ride and even invited Miaoyin **Niangzi**. I should bring a gift as well. What do you think would be appropriate?”

Xu Moxiu replied, "It's a rare chance to relax for a day. Let's drink a bit. Why don't you bring some wine that he hasn’t prepared?"  

"Then you tell me what kinds of wine he has prepared," Lu Feng said.  

"I heard there will be Sichun Hall<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Sichun 思春 means to yearn for love"></sup>, Huangdu Spring<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Huangdu 皇都 means Imperial Capital"></sup>, Zhenzhu Spring<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Zhenzhu (珍珠) means Pearl"></sup>, Penglai Spring<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="蓬莱 - a fabled abode of immortals"></sup>, Baiyu Plump<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="白玉 or Baiyu means White Jade"></sup>, Mulberry Wine, Chrysanthemum Wine, Osmanthus Wine, and…"  

"Wait a moment, you two!" Chen Yanmei suddenly interjected loudly.

Just the thought of Miaoyin **Niangzi** was already making him itch with anticipation, and with Baiyu Plump included… If he couldn't go, it would truly be unbearable for him.  

"What instructions does **Xiansheng** has?" Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng asked, turning back when they heard their teacher call them.  

"Going for a boat ride and drinking wine—how dangerous! I’m worried about you two and need to keep an eye on you," Chen Yanmei said sternly.  

Xu Moxiu hesitated, "Well..."  

"What? Do you really want to do something behind my back?" Chen Yanmei pretended to be stern.

"No, **Xiansheng**, please allow me to explain. My **Jiefu**, as the legitimate grandson of Jing Guogong, has invited Miaoyin **Niangzi** to this boat ride at great expense. The banquet is of very high standards, so it’s not just anyone who can go, one must have this," Xu Moxiu said, holding up the invitation.

"Then have him write me an invitation. Regardless, I must go to keep an eye on you two," Chen Yanmei said, unable to suppress a slight blush on his old face.  

Xu Moxiu hesitated, "But on what grounds would we invite **Xiansheng**? It wouldn't be appropriate to say it's just to keep an eye on me and Zisheng **Xiong**; **Jiefu** would surely find that amusing."  

This left Chen Yanmei momentarily at a loss. Indeed, he had no connection to the legitimate grandson of Jing Guogong; what identity would he have to tag along... cough, to supervise his prized students?  

After a moment of silence among the three, Lu Feng suddenly said, "**Xiansheng**, why not invite Wenlin's **Jiefu** to listen in on a few lessons? Then *you* could be considered his teacher, and it would make sense for him to invite *you* to the boat ride. Besides, I've met Wenlin's **Jiefu**. He’s well-mannered and dignified, coming from a wealthy background without any spoiled behavior. He wouldn’t cause any trouble.”

Chen Yanmei hesitated.  

Xu Moxiu continued, "If it's difficult for **Xiansheng**, then Zisheng and I won't trouble **Xiansheng** any further. At most, we can promise you that we won't drink alcohol on this trip. **Xiansheng** can rest assured about that, right?"  

Chen Yanmei puffed his cheeks in annoyance, thinking to himself, is this really about whether you drink or not? This is about whether I can enjoy listening to Miaoyin **Niangzi** play the pipa while sipping on Baiyu Plump!

"Fine, let him be an auditor. Besides, there are already two grandsons of Yang **Gelao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Grand Secretary"></sup> present, so it won't be setting a precedent for me," Chen Yanmei finally relented.  

"I’m only agreeing to this because of you. It’s not for the sake of going on the boat ride," he emphasized.  

Xu Moxiu held back his laughter and said with a serious expression, "Thank you very much, **Xiansheng**.”
