---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 96"
snippet: "I’m already used to sleeping with you."
order: 96
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In the afternoon, Xu Nian'an received news from the people sent by Xu Moxiu. In the evening, while dining with Zhao Huanxi at Yin Furen's place, Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Huanxi in front of Yin Furen, "**Sanlang**, Chen **Lao Xiansheng**, Chen Ji, from Ah Xiu's Academy also wants to go boating on the lake. Later, write him an invitation and send it over. Also, Chen **Lao Xiansheng** enjoys drinking Baiyu Plum wine. Mother said that **Zufu** has a jar in his wine cellar. After dinner, go and borrow it from **Zufu**.”

"Alright." Zhao Huanxi didn't mind having one more person, especially since this person was Wenlin's teacher, so he was naturally willing to show respect.

After dinner, Zhao Huanxi went to Dunyi Hall. Yin Furen's eyes lit up as she asked Xu Nian'an, "Is it settled?"

Xu Nian'an nodded with a smile, "It's settled.”

"Aiya Heavens ah! Such a difficult matter, and you managed to get it done just like that!" Yin Furen was overjoyed, looking at Xu Nian'an with eyes full of admiration, as if she were gazing at a treasure, absolutely delighted.

Xu Nian'an couldn't help but laugh and said, "It's just to audit a class, not to officially study at Canglan Academy. It's not that difficult.”

"Don't be so modest! Look around the whole capital, besides Yang **Gelao**, who else can send their children to audit classes at Jiyuan Garden? Even if it's not to study officially at Canglan Academy, being able to audit classes is still a great honour. Ah, this is just wonderful, truly wonderful!" Yin Furen was excited for a while, then suddenly remembered something strange and asked Xu Nian'an, "Last time, I asked Huanxi how he managed to invite that Miaoyin **Niangzi**. He said he might have offended her, yet she agreed without even mentioning payment. What's going on with that?”

Xu Nian'an paused, then looked up at Yin Furen and said, "Mom, to be honest, Miaoyin **Niangzi**, Liu Fuyi, is a close friend of mine."

Yin Furen was stunned. She never thought that these two had crossed paths.

Xu Nian'an slowly explained, "She is from Hangzhou, and her family has passed down a secret recipe and skill for making pastries for generations. When it came to her mother's generation, there was only her as the sole daughter, so they arranged for a husband to marry into the family. Four years ago, Fuyi's mother unexpectedly passed away. Suddenly, a woman arrived at their door with two children older than her, and only then did she learn that her father already had a wife and family back in his hometown before marrying into the Liu Family.

"Although her father had married into the family for over ten years, the recipe for the pastries, which was the foundation of the Liu Family's livelihood, remained a secret. He had only learned the skills, but not the recipe. After Fuyi's mother passed away, he relentlessly pressured Fuyi for the recipe. Fuyi, resentful of how he had deceived her mother, fled the house with her personal maid when he was off guard. She wandered all the way to the capital, where she fell ill with a cold on the roadside. It was me who saved her.”

A hint of sympathy sparked in Yin Furen’s eyes upon hearing this.

Xu Nian'an continued, "Seeing that my family was struggling, she voluntarily gave me the recipe and taught me the skill of making Liu Family's pastries. That’s how our pastry shop, 'Caizhi Zhai', came to be. In the beginning, we couldn't even afford to rent a shop, so I was in charge of making the pastries, while she and her maid would take the pastries and a pipa to various teahouses and restaurants to sell them.

"She played the pipa beautifully and was also very attractive, so she quickly gained fame. Moreover, she had a stroke of luck. Once, while playing the pipa at a teahouse, she caught the attention of the wife of the Minister of Justice, who had a deep love for music. From then on, she began performing at banquets for high-ranking officials and nobles. Though she only ever sold her art, not her body, she was still worried about tarnishing my reputation and refused to associate with me openly. This time, I merely asked her for a favour on behalf of **Sanlang**.”

Yin Furen understood and sighed, "Who would have thought that you and Miaoyin **Niangzi** had such a connection? You asked for her help, yet that foolish boy Huanxi went and offended her. What can one say to that?"

Xu Nian'an chuckled and said, "Fuyi was deliberately testing him for my sake. Luckily, it was him. If it had been someone else who showed even the slightest interest in her teasing, she wouldn’t have helped at all.”

Yin Furen laughed and said, "So, it seems to fit the saying, 'Foolish people have foolish luck'."

Xu Nian'an replied, "**Sanlang** isn’t foolish, he is righteous and straightforward. Only someone as kind-hearted as *You*, Mom, could raise a son with such a noble character."

Yin Furen, already accustomed to her daughter-in-law's frequent compliments, doesn't even blush. She simply chatted warmly with her while they drank tea, waiting for Zhao Huanxi to return.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

**Guogong Yê** had been in a foul mood these past few days due to the matters with Fifth Branch. He began to realise that the reason Mingcheng had become his most favoured son was that Mingcheng had been raised and educated by him personally, having nothing to do with his mother or his wife. Those two women simply didn’t know how to raise children.

Previously, he had thought that Huanxi had been spoiled by Yin Furen, but at least that child had a righteous heart and was still redeemable. However, as for Huanxu and Shuxian...

**Guogong Yé** was deep in his troubled thoughts when Xiangzhong reported from the doorway, "**Guogong Yé**, Xi **San Yé** requests an audience."

**Guogong Yé** snapped out of his thoughts, returned to his desk from the window, and said, "Let him in.”

Zhao Huanxi entered the study cheerfully and bowed to **Guogong Yé**, "**Zufu**."

Seeing his grandson's youthful exuberance, **Guogong Yé**'s mood brightened a little as well. He asked, "What brings you here at this hour?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "**Zufu**, **Sun'er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="grandson"></sup> plans to invite some friends to go boating on the Bian River on the 15th Day of the Ninth Month. I've also invited Wenlin, and he mentioned to Nian'an that his teacher would be joining as well. It’s said his teacher enjoys drinking Baiyu Plum. Mother mentioned that **Zufu** have a jar of Baiyu Plum, so, thick-skinned as One is, **Sun’er** would like to ask to borrow it.”

**Guogong Yé** asked, "Wenlin's teacher, is he from Canglan Academy?"

"Indeed," Zhao Huanxi confirmed.

**Guogong Yé** then instructed Xiangzhong to send someone to the wine cellar to have the jar of Baiyu Plum delivered to Jiaxiang House.

After Xiangzhong left, **Guogong Yé** hesitated for a moment before saying to Zhao Huanxi, "Since you’re inviting friends for a lake outing, it would be livelier with more people. Why not invite Huanxu along as well?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I already invited him, but he said he’s busy writing essays and doesn’t have time for leisure."

**Guogong Yé** sighed, "If that’s the case, then let it be.
<br>

In the evening, the young couple returned to Shenhui Courtyard. Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Huanxi, “The day after tomorrow, my **Si Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th younger sister. "></sup> is getting married. I have already discussed it with Mother and will return to the Xu Residence tomorrow to help with the arrangements. I won’t be back tomorrow night, so take care of yourself.”

“I want to go too,” Zhao Huanxi said.

“If you want to go, you can go during the day, but you can’t stay overnight.”

“Why?”

“My bed is small, and it’s cramped for two people to sleep.”

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment and suddenly had an idea, “Then I can sleep on the floor.”

Xu Nian'an, feeling helpless, replied, “Why would you do that? I’m just not coming back for one night.”

“But I’m already used to sleeping with you.” Zhao Huanxi reached out and tugged at her sleeve.

Xu Nian'an’s face turned red at his words, and she corrected him, “You’re used to sleeping on the same bed. Can you please be more precise with your words!”

Zhao Huanxi saw her blushing and was confused, saying, "That's exactly what I meant, so why are you emphasising it?"

Xu Nian'an, both embarrassed and annoyed, pushed him away, "Move aside."

Zhao Huanxi refused to budge. Not only did he stay, but he grabbed her and asked, "Why are you losing your temper for no reason?"

"So what if I am?" Xu Nian'an glared at him defiantly.

Zhao Huanxi asked, "Are you in a bad mood? Did someone bully you? Tell me, and I’ll stand up for you!”

“You’re the one bullying me. I just want to stay at my parents' house for one night, but you won’t give me peace!” Xu Nian'an said angrily.

Zhao Huanxi instantly deflated, looking at her pitifully, “Fine, I won’t go. I’ll let you have your peace, just don’t be mad.”

After sending him off to the garden to practise martial arts, Xu Nian'an sat alone in the room, gazing at the large decorative lantern, and began reflecting on herself.

Why did it feel like she was becoming more temperamental in front of him lately? She seemed to be treating him more and more casually as well.

Surely, it couldn't be that she was deliberately bullying him. 

Then why?

Xu Nian'an turned her head, her face glowing red in the lamplight. For the first time, she realised she had this side of self-deception. 

But how could she admit it? He was just an innocent young man, always saying he liked her. But did he really understand what liking meant? Could he truly distinguish between dependence and liking?
<br>

The next morning, it was Zhao Huanxi's turn to see Xu Nian'an off.

“Today, I’m going to find Qian **Xiong** and the others to get the guarantee letter, then I’ll write an invitation to send to Wenlin's teacher. I’ll come to your house to find you tomorrow morning,” he reported his plans to Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an nodded, “Be careful when you’re out. Take Zhiyi and Zhi'er with you.”

Zhao Huanxi agreed and reminded her, "You be careful too."

Xu Nian'an replied, "I’m just going home, what’s there to be careful about?"

"Be careful of your thick-skinned **Bomu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of father's (older) brother; aunt."></sup> stirring up trouble again," Zhao Huanxi said. "If she causes trouble again, just scold her fiercely. Don’t be afraid of her."

Xu Nian'an couldn’t help but laugh, "Got it. I'm off.”

She got into the carriage, and after it had travelled some distance, she lifted the curtain to look back. Zhao Huanxi was still standing outside the door, gazing longingly at the carriage. When he saw her face appear at the window, his expression immediately brightened.

Feeling a bit helpless, she waved at him, signalling for him to go back. But he refused, standing there until the carriage had travelled down the long street and turned a corner, disappearing completely from view.

Zhao Huanxi spent the day following his plan. In the afternoon, after Yin Luochen returned from visiting a friend, he accompanied Zhao Huanxi and Zhao Huanrong to practise sword techniques with the **Lao Yézi**.

That evening, after finishing his sword practice and returning to Shenhui Courtyard, Zhao Huanxi felt the entire room filled with cold loneliness.

Listlessly, he bathed but didn’t bother drying his hair. He lay down on the bed, staring at the canopy for a long time, his mind still occupied with thoughts of Dong **Jiejie**, unable to fall asleep.

He turned his head to look at the outer side of the bed—it was empty, much like how his heart felt at that moment.

Her pillow was still there, made of blue satin, embroidered with the pattern of a carp leaping over the dragon’s gate.

He rolled over and lay on his stomach, stretching his neck to sniff her pillow. It still carried a faint fragrance, exactly like the scent of her hair.

Zhao Huanxi brightened up, reaching out to pull her pillow over. It was long and rectangular, fitting perfectly in his arms.

With his face resting against the pillow, enveloped by the familiar scent of Xu Nian'an, he peacefully drifted off to sleep.
<br>

The next morning, after having breakfast with Yin Furen, Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen bid her farewell and headed to the Xu Residence.

Xu Moxiu had taken leave from his teacher. Although it was a shu daughter’s wedding, many relatives still came to see her off out of respect for Xu Nian'an. This time, Dong **Shi**, the Countess of Zhongyi, didn’t shamelessly make an appearance.

When Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen arrived at the Xu Residence, Xu Nian'an was in the bride's room with the other women. Since it wasn’t appropriate for Zhao Huanxi to seek her out, Xu Moxiu pulled him over to join the men.

Lunch was served under the large peach tree in the courtyard, with separate tables for men and women. Xu Nian'an was busy organising and entertaining the guests, and it wasn’t until then that Zhao Huanxi caught a brief glimpse of her and exchanged a few words.

During the meal, as Zhao Huanxi chatted with Lu Feng and the others while eating, Yin Luochen nudged him twice with his elbow. Confused, Zhao Huanxi turned to look at him, and Yin Luochen subtly gestured towards a young man seated diagonally across from them.

Through the introductions and conversations from the morning, Zhao Huanxi knew that the man’s surname was Chen, with the single given name Dong. He was the nephew of Chen Furen from Xu Family's Second Branch. Chen Dong, at twenty years old, was fair and handsome with refined manners, and he was still unmarried. At that moment, he was secretly glancing at Xu Nian'an, who was busy among the women.

<div class="author-note">
If this is confusing, this Chen Dong is a Biao cousin of XNA's Tang cousin. He's her (second) aunt's nephew.
</div>
