---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 97"
snippet: "Is this how you kiss?"
order: 97
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Zhao Huanxi, after receiving a reminder from Yin Luochen, began to observe Chen Dong closely. Sure enough, every now and then, he would glance towards the women’s section, seemingly unintentionally, but his gaze was clearly fixated on Xu Nian'an.

Feeling a bit irritated, he suddenly heard Yin Luochen whisper, "Watch me."

As he turned his head, he saw Yin Luochen looking at Chen Dong with ill intentions, about to say something. He hurriedly tugged on Yin Luochen’s sleeve.

Yin Luochen turned to look at him, and Zhao Huanxi shook his head.

There was a celebration in the Xu Family today, and he didn't want to ruin the atmosphere with these baseless suspicions.

After the meal, the men gathered again to drink tea and chat. After a while, Chen Dong stood up and went to the backyard. Yin Luochen immediately followed, using the excuse of going to the restroom.

Zhao Huanxi hesitated for a moment but eventually followed as well. Just as he reached the corner of the hallway, Yin Luochen blocked his way, and he overheard Chen Dong's voice nearby: "Dong’er **Jiejie**, I couldn’t make it to your wedding. This is a gift to congratulate you. Please accept it.”

Zhao Huanxi clenched his fists in frustration: How dare he call her Dong’er **Jiejie**! I can’t even call her that, I can only call her Dong’er or Dong **Jiejie**!

Xu Nian'an looked at the small gift box presented in front of her but didn’t reach out to take it. She simply said, "That’s unnecessary. Our two families aren’t close enough that you have to give me a wedding gift. I'm already grateful that you could attend my younger sister’s wedding."

"Dong’er **Jiejie**, must you be so distant with me?" Chen Dong's tone sounded a bit disappointed.

"Chen **Gongzi**, you can no longer address me that way. I am now a woman of the Zhao Family, and you should call me Zhao Furen. The way we addressed each other as **Biao Ge** and **Biao Mei** was just something from our childhood. When my family was in trouble, you extended a helping hand to me, and I have always remembered that kindness. If you ever need my assistance in the future, as long as it is within my ability, I will not refuse. As for anything else, let’s not bring it up again," said Xu Nian'an.

Upon hearing this, Yin Luochen pulled Zhao Huanxi, who was still eager to eavesdrop, away from the corner of the wall and walked towards the large peach tree in the courtyard.

Not long after, Xu Nian'an and Chen Dong emerged from the back courtyard, one following the other. The former looked calm and composed, while the latter appeared dejected.

Xu Nian'an saw Zhao Huanxi and Yin Luochen standing under the peach tree and walked towards them, asking, "Why standing here? Why not go inside and have some tea?"

Zhao Huanxi, with the corner of his eye, noticed Chen Dong glancing in their direction. He walked over, wrapped his arms around Xu Nian'an, and pressed his face close to hers, saying, "I missed you."

"Aiya, how nauseating! I can't stand it!" Yin Luochen complained, turning his back.

Xu Nian'an, realising what was happening, blushed deeply and quickly pushed him away, whispering, "In public... why are you behaving like this?”

Zhao Huanxi stubbornly held on to her, muttering, "We're husband and wife, what's improper about it?"

Just then, some ladies emerged from the side room, and upon seeing them under the peach tree, burst into laughter, saying, "Look at this newlywed couple, sugar that is inseparable with honey!"

Xu Nian'an quickly pushed Zhao Huanxi away, her face flushed, and hurried off in embarrassment.

Zhao Huanxi was then teased relentlessly by Yin Luochen.
<br>

In the afternoon, Shopkeeper Qiao arrived to welcome the bride.

Zhao Huanxi, recalling Xu Nian'an’s words about him being "handsome and dignified," paid special attention to Shopkeeper Qiao’s appearance. He noticed that Shopkeeper Qiao had slightly dark skin, thick eyebrows, and large eyes, with two long dimples when he smiled. In short, his appearance was completely different from Zhao Huanxi’s.

Could it be that Dong'er likes this type? Zhao Huanxi thought, feeling frustrated.

However, Shopkeeper Qiao, with just one look, seemed very mature. He spoke and acted with both tact and grace, giving off a reliable impression.

Hmph! He's just a few years older, that's all! Who's to say that when he reaches Shopkeeper Qiao's age, he can't be the same?

As per custom, Xu Moxiu carried Xu Qi'an into the bridal sedan chair. The groom led the procession, with the sedan chair accompanied by festive music and lively celebrations as they departed.

The guests gradually dispersed, and Xu Nian'an stayed behind to help her family clean up the aftermath, making her and Zhao Huanxi the last to leave.

By the time they arrived at the Jing Guogong Residence, it was already late. The two went to Jiaxiang House to greet Yin Furen, then returned to Shenhui Courtyard, had a bite to eat, and took a bath before going to bed.

Xu Nian'an barely slept last night, and now she was truly exhausted. Zhao Huanxi, however, wasn’t tired. He tossed and turned on the inside of the bed for a while, then turned to face Xu Nian'an and softly called, "Dong **Jiejie**."

"Mm..." Xu Nian'an, facing away from him, responded sleepily.

"I'm sorry.”

Hearing his apology, Xu Nian'an reluctantly opened her eyes and turned to face him, her voice slightly hoarse as she asked, "Why are you suddenly apologising?"

Zhao Huanxi looked at her earnestly and said, "Thinking about it now, when I went to marry you back then, I didn’t even smile once. No wonder Wenlin has a grudge against me. Dong **Jiejie**, I regret it so much. If only I could marry you again.”

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "That would be difficult. If I were to divorce you, I certainly wouldn’t marry you again."

Zhao Huanxi reached out, took her hand, and placed it against his chest, pleading, "Dong **Jiejie**, let’s not get divorced, alright? Whatever I owe you from before, I’ll make up for it tenfold in the future. I’ll do my best to be good to you. Whatever you say, I’ll listen, and whatever you want me to do, I’ll do. Is that okay?"

"Why?"

"Because I like you.”

Xu Nian'an stared into Zhao Huanxi's clear, sparkling eyes and suddenly lost her sleepiness. She slowly said, "Say that again, I want to take it seriously."

Zhao Huanxi was taken aback, then felt a bit aggrieved. "It’s true!" Did she not take his previous confession seriously?

"Can you tell the difference between whether you really like me or just depend on me? Sometimes, you might feel like you can’t live without me, but that feeling doesn’t necessarily mean you like me. Perhaps you just rely on me, like a child depends on their mother or a younger brother depends on an older sister," Xu Nian'an said to him.

"That’s not true!" Zhao Huanxi retorted, his face turning red. "If I only depended on you like a child relies on their mother or a younger brother relies on his older sister, then why do I always think about holding your hand, wanting to hug you, and even, even..." At this point, his face became even redder, and he lowered his gaze, losing his words.

"Even what?" Xu Nian'an pressed.

"Even..." Zhao Huanxi suddenly pulled the blanket up to cover his face and muttered, "I even want to kiss you.”

Xu Nian'an looked at the dark top of his hair poking out from the silk quilt and, almost instinctively, leaned over and pulled the blanket away from his face.

As she gazed at the delicate brows and eyes revealed beneath the blanket, along with his soft, pink lips, she paused for a moment. Then, she gently hooked her fingers under his chin, lifting his fair, rosy face that looked so inviting.

Their gazes intertwined, and suddenly, without warning, she lowered her head, her full, red lips pressing against his delicately contoured ones.

Zhao Huanxi's eyes widened in shock. Before he could react, she swiftly pulled away.

"Is this how you kiss?" she asked softly, leaning closer to him.

Zhao Huanxi was completely dazed, his mind clouded, and he instinctively reached out to pull her into his embrace.

"No," she said, pressing his hand against the pillow. After saying this, she turned over and lay down with her back to him.

Zhao Huanxi was left feeling both exhilarated and confused by her actions. After a moment, he turned over and nestled behind her, wrapping his arms around her.

Xu Nian'an, who had been silently blushing with her eyes closed, sensed his movements and opened her eyes to ask, "What are you doing?"

Zhao Huanxi didn’t respond. He simply held her tightly, resting his forehead against the back of her head.

Xu Nian'an tried to struggle a bit but couldn’t break free.

"…You shouldn’t hold me like this while sleeping; it’ll make you uncomfortable."

"I’m not uncomfortable," came the sulky reply from behind her.

Xu Nian'an realised that this situation was entirely of her own making, so she decided to stay still and let him hold her.

After a while, he silently released her and shifted back to his side of the bed.

Xu Nian'an turned to look at him.

Seeing her turn, he pulled the blanket up higher, completely hiding himself inside.

This time, Xu Nian'an didn’t try to pull his blanket away.
<br>

The next morning, Xu Nian'an went to Jiaxiang House to assist Yin Furen as usual before dawn, with Zhao Huanxi sleepily following her to listen in. After finishing their tasks and having breakfast at Jiaxiang House, he finally woke up completely when they returned to Shenhui Courtyard.

"What are your plans for today?" Xu Nian'an asked him.

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I’ll go practice martial arts shortly, and after that, I'll deliver the invitations. This afternoon, shall we go check out the pleasure boat?"

Xu Nian'an asked in surprise, "It's already this late. Why are you still delivering invitations?”

Zhao Huanxi explained, "Qian Ming is inviting a lot of people. His friends, his friends' friends, the elders of his friends' friends, and so on... Ah, in short, there will be around thirty or forty people. I've already prepared the invitations for those my age and had the servants sent them, but for those elders, even though they’re not related to me, since I’m hosting, it’s respectful for me to deliver the invitations personally. I didn’t have time yesterday, so I have to do it today."

Xu Nian'an nodded, "That makes sense." Then she expressed her concern, "With thirty or forty people, plus my brother’s side, plus Miaoyin **Niangzi** and the musicians, and the maids and servants, our rented pleasure boat is probably going to be a bit cramped.”

Zhao Huanxi said, "I forgot to mention that Qian **Xiong** is also worried the pleasure boat might not be big enough, so he borrowed his **Wai Zumu**’s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="maternal grandmother."></sup> boat."

Xu Nian'an was taken aback. "The pleasure boat of Yongci **Zhang Gongzhu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="长公主- The Grand Princess. A princess who is the sister of an emperor. When a prince ascends the throne, his sisters, first rank princesses (Gongzhu) may be granted this title."></sup>?"

Zhao Huanxi nodded. "There are even palace servants assigned to manage the boat, so we won’t have to provide extra staff ourselves.”

Xu Nian'an praised, "This time, you really have made quite a grand showing as the host."

Zhao Huanxi smiled a bit shyly, lifting his gaze to look at her with tender feelings, and said, "Dong **Jiejie**, you still haven’t answered the question I asked you last night."

Xu Nian'an shifted her gaze elsewhere, saying, "What question?" Just as she finished speaking, he gently pinched her cheek with his thumb and forefinger and said, "Don’t play dumb.”

Xu Nian'an looked at him in surprise.

Zhao Huanxi released his hand, his face slightly flushed, trying to act nonchalant. "What are you staring at? You’ve pinched me too."

Xu Nian'an replied, "When did I pinch you?"

"Last time when you were drunk."

Xu Nian'an was momentarily speechless. 

"Hurry and answer," Zhao Huanxi urged her.

Xu Nian'an replied, "I think it's not a good idea. After all, we agreed that whoever goes back on their word is a little *wangba*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="little turtle, an insult. See Chapter 5 for explanation. "></sup>."

"I'm the one who went back on my word first! Can't I just be the little *wangba*? It won't count for you," Zhao Huanxi said anxiously.

"Your changing your mind is your business. If I agree, it means I’m also going back on my word. How does that not count? I need to think it over," Xu Nian'an said as she walked to the side, turning her back to him while fiddling with her handkerchief.

Zhao Huanxi looked at her back, his brows furrowing. "Alright then. I’ll go deliver the invitations. When I come back, we can go to the pleasure boat together.”

Xu Nian'an stood by the window, watching Zhao Huanxi leave with the invitations. Just as she was about to head to Yin Furen’s, Zhao Shuxian stormed in with her maidservants, looking furious.

"Xu Nian'an! Get out here!" she shouted loudly as she barged into the courtyard.

The maidservants guarding the entrance were held back by Zhao Shuxian's attendants, allowing her to storm right in.

When Mingli and Songyun saw this, they rushed to stop her, but Xu Nian'an stepped out from the main room and said, "You all can step back."

With no one to stop her, Zhao Shuxian walked straight up to Xu Nian'an and, without a word, raised her hand to slap her across the face.
