---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 98"
snippet: "As for those in the Fifth Branch, who are both malicious and stupid, she naturally wished she could finish them off with a single blow."
order: 98
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Mingli, Yisu, and the others were greatly shocked upon seeing this. They wanted to come over and stop it, but it was already too late.

Xu Nian'an reached out and firmly grasped Zhao Shuxian's wrist, pushing her back with a cold expression and saying, "Think before you move your hand!”

"Xu Nian'an, you bi*ch! How could you do such a thing? I wish I could kill you!" Zhao Shuxian didn't manage to hit her, but the strength holding back her emotions drained completely with that swing, and she burst into tears.

Xu Nian'an ordered those around her, "All of you, step back, move further away.”

Mingli glared angrily at Zhao Shuxian, feeling very uneasy. "**Xiaojie**!"

"It's fine, I just want to have a few words with her. It's not appropriate for you to listen in, so step back," Xu Nian'an said.

After the maidservants stepped back, Xu Nian'an calmly looked at Zhao Shuxian, who had broken down and was crying uncontrollably, and said, "Your engagement to Lu Feng has been called off, is that right?"

"And you still dare to ask? It's all because you slandered me in front of **Zufu**! You gossiping wretch! You're heartless, you will die young!" Zhao Shuxian cried and cursed.

"I remember warning you that if you dared ruin my sister's reputation because of Lu Feng, I'd make sure you wouldn't marry him. Why don't you ever learn?" Xu Nian'an stared at her.

Zhao Shuxian's sobs paused, her gaze slightly evasive, as she denied, "Stop accusing me! When have I ever ruined your sister's reputation?”

Seeing her like this, Xu Nian'an decided not to say more and said, "Out of respect for **Zufu**, I'll give you one last piece of advice. Even though the marriage with the Lu Family didn't work out, if you live properly from now on and listen to **Zufu**, he will certainly do his best to arrange another good marriage for you. Stop thinking you're clever. You don't have the wisdom to take responsibility for your own future, and neither does your mother. If you want to live well for the rest of your life, follow **Zufu**s arrangements. That's all I have to say. You take care of yourself.”

She called for Songyun to see the guest out. As Xu Nian'an walked back to her room, Zhao Shuxian shouted furiously at her retreating figure, "Xu Nian'an, don't think that by using these dirty tricks to break off my engagement with the Lu Family, your lowly sister can climb her way to Lu Feng. Let me tell you, no way! I will make sure her reputation is ruined so badly that everyone knows it, and she'll never get married for the rest of her life!”

Xu Nian'an stopped and turned around, her gaze sweeping lightly, as sharp as a blade, making Zhao Shuxian's heart skip a beat. Zhao Shuxian quickly turned her head, wiping away her tears while muttering curses as she walked away.

Xu Nian'an felt a bit troubled. As for those in the Fifth Branch, who are both malicious and stupid, she naturally wished she could finish them off with a single blow. However, since **Guogong Yé** was in charge of the household now, if she wanted his favour to shift from the Fifth Branch to First Branch, she couldn't afford to show any signs of targeting them out of personal resentment.

However, there was no need to worry too much. With Zhao Huanxu and Zhao Shuxian, that pair of foolish and troublemaking siblings, it was only a matter of time before they exhausted **Guogong Yé**’s remaining guilt and sympathy for them.

The matter of her fifth sister’s marriage couldn't be delayed either. She needed to push Ah Xiu about it.

While Zhao Shuxian was not much of a threat, that step-**Zumu** on the other hand, was someone she had to be cautious of.

Xu Nian'an pondered for a moment, composed her emotions, and headed to Jiaxiang House.

Ning Furen was in Yin Furen's room. After entering and paying her respects, Xu Nian'an sat down to the side.

Yin Furen seemed to have just laughed, her cheeks slightly flushed and her eyes sparkling. She smiled at Xu Nian'an and said, "Nian'an, you came at the perfect time. Your **Er Shenshen** was just looking for you about something.”

Xu Nian'an looked at Ning Furen, "**Er Shenshen**, feel free to speak."

Ning Furen said, "Just now, your mother-in-law mentioned that Xi **Ge'er** is inviting friends to a painting boat trip on the upper reaches of the Bian River tomorrow, and some students and teachers from Canglan Academy will also be attending. So, I shamelessly thought to ask if my Chun **Ge'er** could tag along to broaden his horizons?"

Xu Nian'an smiled and replied, "This is no trouble at all. Even if **Er Shenshen** hadn't mentioned it, **Sanlang** would have invited the brothers in the family anyway.”

Ning Furen chuckled, "Oh dear, now you've made me seem narrow-minded."

After exchanging a few more jokes, Ning Furen mentioned that she had a household to attend to and took her leave.

As soon as Ning Furen left, Yin Furen couldn't wait to tell Xu Nian'an, "Just now, **Er Taitai** told me that the Lu Family has called off the engagement with the Fifth Branch. Although they claim it was the Fifth Branch's decision to withdraw, why would they break off a perfectly good engagement with the Lu Family? It's just a cover-up that only makes things more obvious."

Xu Nian'an watched her mother-in-law giggle as she spoke, becoming increasingly unreserved in front of her daughter-in-law. Feeling both amused and exasperated, she said, "Look at Mom, so happy! Anyone who didn't know would think you have another daughter to marry off to that Lu **Gongzi**!”

Her words stirred up Yin Furen's concerns, and she sighed, putting away her smile. "If my Jiazhen hadn’t married someone like Li Ziliang, she would have been more than a match for Lu Feng. But now, that’s not an option. However, your **Wu Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th younger sister."></sup> has a chance. After the New Year, Lu Feng will be twenty-one, and the marriage can’t be delayed any longer. Have your brother act as a matchmaker. Since they know each other well, it might just work.”

Xu Nian'an shook her head and said, "The Lu Family has a prestigious background, and Lu **Gongzi** is quite accomplished. My Xu family is of average status, and my sister's character is also mediocre. I don't intend to let her rely on my brother's connection with Lu **Gongzi** to climb the social ladder. After all, in matters of marriage, it ultimately needs to be satisfactory to the elders for it to last.”

"Wasn't it said that Lu **Lao Furen** likes your sister?" Yin Furen asked.

"Like and being willing to have her as a granddaughter-in-law are two different matters," Xu Nian'an replied. "Before **Sanlang** got married, when attending banquets and meeting other young ladies, surely there were some *you* liked? But did *you* want to bring every one of them home as a daughter-in-law?”

Yin Furen thought carefully for a moment and nodded, "What you say makes sense."

The two of them moved on from that topic, and Xu Nian'an inquired about the arrangements for the pleasure boat. Before they knew it, it was already noon.

"Why hasn't Huanxi returned yet?" Yin Furen, having gotten up from her seat, couldn't help but murmur after waiting for a while without seeing her son.

Xu Nian'an also felt a bit anxious. When Zhao Huanxi left in the morning, she noticed he only had three or five invitation cards in hand, so he should have finished delivering them by now. Why hadn't he returned? In broad daylight, right under the Emperor's feet, could something have happened?

<div class="author-note">
The phrase "青天白日天子脚下" (qīng tiān bái rì tiān zǐ jiǎo xià) is a Chinese idiom that translates to "in broad daylight, right under the emperor's feet."
<br><br>
青天白日 (qīng tiān bái rì): This part means "clear sky and bright sun," implying that it is daytime and visibility is clear.
天子脚下 (tiān zǐ jiǎo xià): "Under the emperor's feet" refers to being in the presence of the emperor or in a place directly governed by him, signifying safety and authority.
</div>

Just as the mother and daughter-in-law pair was feeling uneasy, Zhao Huanxi finally returned.

“**Taitai**, **Nainai**, **San Yé** has invited Qu **Gong**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="公 in this context means Lord. The word young master/Gongzi (公子) actually is the same ‘Gong’ with this and it means the son of a lord."></sup> to stay for a meal. He sent me back to inform you both, so there's no need to wait for him for dinner.”

“Qu **Gong**? Which Qu **Gong**?” Yin Furen seemed a little uneasy.

Zhiyi scratched his head, “**Xiaode**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this little/humble one"></sup> doesn't know, but one heard **San Yé** says that Qu **Gong**’s calligraphy is very beautiful.”

Xu Nian'an exclaimed in shock, "Qu **Gong**, whose calligraphy is beautiful? Could it be the renowned calligrapher, Qu Ju, Qu **Lao Xiansheng**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Xiansheng means master/teacher. Adding Lao which means old adds another layer of respect."></sup>?" She instantly felt some regret. She shouldn’t have been so focused on discussing with Zhao Huanxi about who should take the blame for the small mess this morning. She should have looked at the invitations he hadn't yet sent out. She had thought they were just for the elders like Qian Ming and the others, but never imagined someone as distinguished as Qu **Lao Xiansheng** would be among them.

Qu Ju was truly famous, and even Yin Furen knew of him. Hearing what Xu Nian'an said, she found it hard to believe and replied, "That can't be, right? How could a figure like Qu **Gong** stay for a meal with Huanxi?”

She cast a puzzled glance at Zhiyi. 

Zhiyi looked completely bewildered. "**Xiaode** doesn't know either. After **San Yé** delivered Qu **Gong**’s invitation, he sent out three more invitations. Once all the invitations were delivered and **San Yé** was about to return, a servant from the Qu Family caught up with him, saying that their master had invited him to visit the house for a chat. **San Yé** turned back to the Qu Residence. Close to noon, he called **Xiaode** over and said that Qu **Gong** was keeping him for a meal, so **Xiaode** was to come back and inform **Taitai** and **Nainai**.”

"What were **San Yé** and Qu **Gong** doing when you saw them?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"They were writing in the study," Zhiyi replied.

Xu Nian'an dismissed Zhiyi to go eat and then smiled at Yin Furen, saying, "It’s most likely truly the Great Calligrapher Qu.”

Yin Furen still seemed as if she were in a dream and said, "I've heard that Qu **Gong**'s calligraphy is so valuable that even the Emperor has copied his work. How could such a person, how could he invite Huanxi for a meal?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "Mother may not know this, but **Sanlang** has been diligently practising calligraphy over the past few months, and his writing has become quite impressive. From what Zhiyi mentioned, it's not hard to deduce that **Sanlang** first went to the Qu Residence to deliver an invitation. After seeing **Sanlang**'s handwriting, Qu **Lao Xiansheng** became interested in it. Knowing **Sanlang** was delivering the invitation, he sent a servant to follow him. When **Sanlang** was about to return home after delivering the invitations, Qu **Lao Xiansheng** appeared and invited him to his residence. It seems that once **Sanlang** arrived at the Qu Residence, they hit it off immediately, which is why Qu **Lao Xiansheng** invited him to stay for a meal on their very first meeting.”

"Huanxi is really... so likable now?" Yin Furen looked at Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an replied, "Though I haven't lived to be seventy or eighty, I do know that the more one experiences, the more they tend to appreciate simple and genuine things. **Sanlang** has a heart as pure as a child's. In the eyes of someone shrewd, that might seem foolish, but in the eyes of someone wise, he is true to himself. Who wouldn't like an honest, straightforward young man who is both talented and good-looking?”

Yin Furen smiled at her words and sighed, "Three months ago, who would have thought that he would become someone liked by others? Nian'an, this is all thanks to you."

"Mother, *you* are mistaken. If **Sanlang** didn't already have a decent foundation in calligraphy, would three months have been enough for him to write with such transformation? If he didn't already have a pure and kind heart, would three months have been enough for him to change his ways? So, at the root of it all, it was Mother's good upbringing," Xu Nian'an said.

Yin Furen playfully scolded with a smile, "Alright, let's us mother and daughter-in-law stop praising each other like this. Let the maid set the table, we're all so hungry.”

After the pair of mother and daughter-in-law had finished their meal, Zhao Huanxi still hadn't returned, so Xu Nian'an went back to Shenhui Courtyard for a short rest. As she drifted into a light sleep, she vaguely heard someone whispering softly in her ear:

"Dong **Jiejie**, are you still not awake?"

"If you don't wake up, I'm going to kiss you."

"Staying silent means agreeing.”

Xu Nian'an suddenly opened her eyes and saw Zhao Huanxi leaning over the edge of the bed, smiling at her. When he saw she was awake, he leaned his face closer. 

Xu Nian'an quickly reached out to cover his mouth. 

Zhao Huanxi, unfazed, gently held her hand and kissed her fingers. His eyes sparkled with excitement as he said, "Dong **Jiejie**, my calligraphy has been given a name!"

Xu Nian'an, suppressing her blush, asked, "What do you mean?”

"Qu **Gong** praised my calligraphy, saying it has a unique spirit, and he even named my style 'Youlan Style'<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="幽兰 means orchid. Remember how he first practice calligraphy, they compared writing a stroke to drawing an orchid's petal."></sup>. He gave me a lot of advice on my writing today, and I found it incredibly helpful. He also told me that if I have the time, I can send him a piece of calligraphy every month for his review. He's truly a great master," Zhao Huanxi said sincerely.

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "Since Qu **Gong** is guiding and looking after you like this, he can be considered half your teacher. Next time, you should bring a gift to thank him properly.”

Zhao Huanxi nodded, "En, Mother said the same. Dong **Jiejie**, get up quickly. Later, we’ll first go see the pleasure boats, and after that, I’ll take you to the teahouse to watch a play. Or if you want to go somewhere else, that’s fine too."

"Why?" Xu Nian'an asked.

"There's nothing going on today, and we have time, so why not go out and have some fun? I’ve never taken you out to play before. Besides, I already told Mother, and she agreed. She said you've been working hard lately, so it’s good for you to relax a bit," Zhao Huanxi said, shaking her hand playfully. "Come on, get up, get up! You can sleep early tonight."

Xu Nian'an got up, washed up, and when she walked out from behind the screen, she saw Zhao Huanxi sitting at the table, counting a thick stack of silver notes, all in denominations of one hundred taels.
