---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 102"
snippet: "The little puppy was mistaken as a mistress and was beaten."
order: 102
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

"Someone will..." Xu Nian'an had just struggled to get two words out when he tilted his head and sealed her lips again.

"Dong **Jiejie**, your lips are so soft." After a moment of entangled kisses, Zhao Huanxi's face flushed like a peach blossom, his eyes filled with spring-like tenderness<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="眸横春水 (móu héng chūn shuǐ): Eyes overflowing with spring water. A poetic way to describe eyes that are sparkling, expressive, and full of desire or tenderness."></sup>. With his forehead against hers and slightly breathless, he said emotionally, "Just as soft as I imagined when I first saw you."  

Xu Nian'an was so captivated by his appearance that her heart raced wildly. It took her a while to react. "The first time you saw me, you were already thinking about whether my lips were soft?”

Zhao Huanxi chuckled shyly and put a bit of distance between them. Seeing her face also flushed with a rosy glow, he mustered some courage and said, "Thinking back, I realise that I actually liked you from the very first time we met. I was just too naive back then to understand that what I felt was actually liking you."  

Xu Nian'an glared at him. "Was that liking? You were clearly just 'motivated by lust upon seeing beauty'."

Zhao Huanxi held her hand, pressing his bright red lips against her jade-white fingers. His phoenix eyes, with their thick, long lashes, looked at her with shimmering, rippling light, his face full of innocence: "Dong **Jiejie**, what does 'motivated by lust upon seeing beauty' mean?"
<div class="author-note">
见色起意 (jiàn sè qǐ yì): A common phrase meaning to "give rise to intentions (usually lustful) upon seeing beauty." It is a more blunt, less romantic way of saying "love at first sight".
</div>

Seeing him asking something he already knew the answer to, Xu Nian'an’s face turned a bashful red, and she reached out to cover those soul-hooking eyes of his.
Seeing that he was deliberately feigning ignorance, Xu Nian'an, her face blushing even more deeply, reached out to cover his captivating eyes with her hand.  

The young couple lingered in their affectionate moment for a while before Zhao Huanxi finally remembered the main topic. “Earlier, you asked me whether Qian Ming and the other could be trusted. What do you need them for?”  

“Recently, Jinyin went to Ding Guogong Residence to deliver medicine and said that **San Jiejie** is recovering well. Mother and I are planning that once **San Jie** has fully recovered, we will use the excuse of Mother being ill to have her return to visit, and then she won’t go back. We’ll start working on her divorce from Li Ziliang. Mother is worried that Ding Guogong Furen won’t easily agree to let Li Ziliang divorce **San Jie**, so we need to gather some leverage against him. I’ve noticed that Qian Ming and the others seem quite skilled at digging up people’s secrets. Do you think we can ask them for help with this?” Xu Nian'an asked.

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment and nodded. “They don’t have any ties to Li Ziliang, so I think it’s doable.”  

“There’s nothing urgent today. Why don’t you go and ask them for help now? Tomorrow, you can still go to Jiyuan Garden with **Biao Ge** to attend Yanmei **Xiansheng**’s lecture,” Xu Nian’an suggested.  

Zhao Huanxi agreed.  

The young couple tidied themselves up and, hand in hand, went to Jiaxiang House. However, when they arrived, they saw Qin **Shi** and Wei **Shi** (Zhao Huanchao and Zhao Huanyang's wives) standing in the courtyard, both looking rather displeased. 

Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi entered the room and greeted Yin Furen. Before Zhao Huanxi could ask, Xu Nian'an quickly spoke up, saying, "Mom, **Sanlang** has something to attend to outside.”

Yin Furen said, "Oh, what’s the matter? Should we invite Luochen to come along? This child, I wonder if he’s sober yet."  

Zhao Huanxi, distracted by the shift in topic, quickly replied, "No need to invite **Biao Ge**, I can go alone. I’m just heading to Qian Ming’s place."  

Upon hearing this, Yin Furen nodded. "Alright, then. Go ahead, and take Zhiyi and Zhi'er with you.”

As Zhao Huanxi stepped outside and saw Qin **Shi** and Wei **Shi**, he suddenly remembered that he had forgotten to ask his mother why she had them standing there. However, he decided not to go back and ask, because Dong **Jiejie** was still there.  

"Mother, I didn't ask when **Gongdiē**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="father's husband. "></sup> was at home, but I noticed that Jiahui and Jiarong are of marriageable age. I wonder if **Gongdiē** has made any arrangements for their marriages while he was at home?" Xu Nian'an asked, as she served Yin Furen her medicine. While taking the water from Qianhe to help her rinse her mouth, she continued the conversation.
<div class="author-note">
In case you've forgotten,  Zhao Jiahui and Zhao Jiarong are both Zhao Huanxi shu (or concubine born) sisters. Zhao Jiahui is Concubine Du's daughter and Zhao Jiarong is Concubine Shen's daughter.
</div>

Yin Furen wiped her mouth with a handkerchief, her expression one of disdain. "Your black-hearted father-in-law already arranged a match for Jiarong. He picked a 28-year-old widower with a son from his first wife. I heard that this man has a temper and even fights with his family. The first wife was probably beaten to death by him. It's all just a sin, and it's nothing more than paving the way for Zhao Huanchao. As for Zhao Jiahui, your father-in-law has always wanted her to marry into a higher family, but he forgets that it takes the other side’s willingness. How many respectable families' children’s marriages do not need the legitimate mother (in this case, Yin Furen) to intervene, and can rely only on what the men say? Now look, he’s gone with his baggage, leaving Zhao Jiahui, who will turn sixteen after the new year, still without a suitor.”

Xu Nian'an said, "Now that **Gongdiē** is gone, the marriages of these two shu sisters will inevitably fall onto Mother’s shoulders. Since I’ve been in the household, I haven’t seen anything wrong with them." Especially Zhao Jiarong and her mother, who have always kept to themselves, quietly making a living in the corner of Jiaxiang Residence. Zhao Jiarong is only fourteen this year, it's really too much of a waste to marry her off to such a person.  

Yin Furen was originally a kind-hearted person, and thinking about these troublesome matters made her feel frustrated. She furrowed her brows and said, "Who says it's not? Ai, it really is troublesome. Let’s wait until we bring your **San Jie** back and deal with it then." At this point, Yin Furen’s expression suddenly changed, and with a gossiping look, she leaned closer to Xu Nian'an and whispered, "Last night, the Fifth Branch's Xian **Jie'er** hanged herself.”

Xu Nian'an was startled. Before she could ask, Yin Furen quickly explained, "Don’t worry, it was just to scare people. She was saved. If she really wanted to die, why didn’t she wait until it was quiet and everyone was asleep before hanging herself? But no, she was in such a hurry to hang herself while everyone was still awake. She was clearly waiting for someone to save her."  

Xu Nian'an lowered her eyelashes. If Zhao Shuxian had only tried to scare people and seek sympathy, she thought it might not be entirely the case. Lu Feng was talented, good-looking, and came from a good family, but what was rare was that he had good character as well. Zhao Shuxian lost someone like him as a fiancé, and anyone else she might find would feel like a step down. It was very possible that, in her moment of despair, she couldn’t think straight.

Yin Furen looked at her and, thinking she was feeling guilty, said, "Don’t overthink it, it has nothing to do with you. This is entirely the Fifth Branch's own doing. Last night, **Guogong Yé** went over, and you know what? He immediately locked **Lao Taitai** in Lingde Hall. From the look of things, it’s possible that your sister’s incident was really planned by **Lao Taitai**. But then again, **Wu Taitai** has always preferred to hide behind the scenes, watching others go into battle. If you say she had the guts to plot and carry out such a thing, not only would I not believe it, I think no one else would either."  

Xu Nian'an replied, "I’m not feeling guilty. If no one wrongs me, I won’t wrong anyone. But if someone wrongs me, there’s no reason for me to just let them do as they wish. Mother, don’t worry, *your* daughter-in-law is not the kind of foolishly kind person who will just let things slide."  

Yin Furen said with relief, "Exactly, that's how it should be. If I had had your temperament and wisdom when I was young, perhaps my Jiazhen, Jiaxian, and Huanxi wouldn't have had to suffer so much. Hai, talking with you has made me feel much better. Qianhe, go and tell those two in the courtyard to go back. There's no need for them to stand there getting in the way."  

Qianhe nodded and went out.

The mother and daughter-in-law continued discussing tomorrow's plans for Huanxi and Yin Luochen to attend the class at Jiyuan Garden.
<br>

At the Marquis of Yong'an's residence, Zhao Huanxi sat in front of the mirror, feeling utterly resigned and indifferent, as Qian Ming applied his makeup.

For the sake of his third sister, he had finally agreed to let Qian Ming have his way and dress him up as a nandan<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="a male performer playing female roles in traditional Chinese opera."></sup>.

Qian Ming skillfully finished his makeup, attached the hairpieces, and put on the headpiece. Stepping back to take a look, he couldn't help but marvel, his eyes shining with excitement. "A peerless beauty! A peerless beauty! My taste is truly impeccable!"

Zhao Huanxi looked at the woman in the mirror, feeling a bit shocked. He reached up to touch his face and asked worriedly, "Will this stuff wash off?"  

"It’ll wash off, it’ll wash off. Stop touching it. Wait a moment, let me get dressed up too, and we can put on a performance," Qian Ming impatiently shooed him away from the mirror and sat down to begin applying his own makeup.  

"A performance? I don’t know how to do that," Zhao Huanxi said.  

"You don’t need to know, just stand there and look pretty."  

Zhao Huanxi: "……"  

Qian Ming took a while to finish his makeup, and Zhao Huanxi, feeling bored, wandered out of the room.  

This was the northwest corner of the Marquis of Yong'an's residence's garden, and there was a small stage nearby. The rooms he had just passed through were used for the actors to rest and apply makeup.

Zhao Huanxi picked up a flower spear and began twirling it on the stage. However, in a careless moment, he accidentally kicked the spear, sending it flying right into the path of a group of women walking toward him.  

"You little wretch, how dare you disrespect **Da Nainai**! Get down here!" one of the maids picked up the spear and, pointing at Zhao Huanxi on the stage, angrily scolded him.  

Zhao Huanxi focused his gaze and saw that the woman at the front of the group had a delicate and beautiful face, but now she was twisting a handkerchief and glaring at him with an expression full of jealousy and resentment.  

He sensed that something was amiss, so he quickly turned around and walked toward the nearby dressing room beside the stage.

"You little wretch, where do you think you're running off to?" The maid raised the flower spear and chased after him.  

Zhao Huanxi was startled and, while running around the stage, shouted, "Who are you? Are you sure you’ve got the right person?"  

"Turns out it's a man," Lin **Shi**, Qian Ming's wife, couldn't hold back and collapsed into the arms of the maid beside her, crying.

The maids behind him saw this and became furious, shouting, "Block him! Block him! How dare this seducer come to the estate and flaunt himself, completely disregarding **Da Nainai**!"  

Zhao Huanxi looked around and realized he had been surrounded and cornered by a group of maids. It was impossible to strike back, but if he didn’t, they’d probably scratch his face up. Panicked, he shouted, "Qian **Xiong**! Qian **Xiong**! Come out! Help!"  

Hearing his cries, Qian Ming ran out and, seeing the chaotic scene near the stage, was taken aback. Zhao Huanxi was surrounded by the maids, who were tearing at him, and his headgear had already been ripped off.

He was furious and shouted, "Stop! What do you think you're doing?"  

The maids immediately halted, stepping aside.  

Zhao Huanxi hurriedly covered his headgear and rushed to stand next to Qian Ming.  

"What did you promise me? What is this now?" Lin **Shi**, with reddened eyes, pointed at Zhao Huanxi and questioned Qian Ming.  

"What are you talking about? This is my good brother, Zhao Huanxi, the legitimate eldest grandson of Jing Guogong Residence. What do you think he is?" Qian Ming retorted angrily.  

Lin **Shi** was stunned, as were the maids around her.  

"You've embarrassed me completely. This is ridiculous! Get back to your place now!" Qian Ming scolded impatiently.

Lin **Shi**’s cheeks turned red, and, feeling embarrassed, she stepped forward to apologize to Zhao Huanxi before leaving with the maids.  

Zhao Huanxi, holding onto his headgear, glared at Qian Ming and asked, "Is that your wife? Why are you speaking to her so rudely?"  

"Don't you see what she did? Are you hurt?" Qian Ming asked, carefully helping him remove the headgear.  

"There’s some pain behind my right ear. Can you take a look?" Zhao Huanxi turned his head away.  

Qian Ming took a look and muttered a curse under his breath, saying, "You’ve torn it. Forget it, we won’t perform today. Come on, I’ll help you take off your makeup, and later I’ll apply some medicine. But you have to promise me that next time, you’ll perform with me."  

Zhao Huanxi, feeling a bit frustrated, casually agreed, "Alright, alright."  

As Qian Ming wiped the makeup off with a damp cloth, Zhao Huanxi said, "It seems like your wife and the others mistook me for someone else."  

Qian Ming replied, "I have an actor (opera singer) outside. She knows, and I promised her I wouldn’t bring her back to the estate. Women really are petty.”

"Clearly, it's you who’s flirting with others, yet you blame your wife for being petty,” Zhao Huanxi criticized.

Qian Ming paused his motion of wiping his face and asked, "Why are you defending her? Isn't it normal for men to flirt around? Are you saying that when you watched Miaoyin **Niangzi** dancing on the pleasure boat yesterday, you didn’t feel a thing?"  

Zhao Huanxi, curious, asked, "What kind of feeling? Do you guys really feel something when watching her dance? What kind of feeling is that?"  

Qian Ming: "……"  

"Alright, alright, you're newlywed, and your eyes and heart only have room for your new wife. I won’t argue with you. Once you have children, you'll understand what I'm talking about," Qian Ming said.  

Zhao Huanxi firmly responded, "Once I have children, I still won’t do anything to wrong my wife. I don't want to be a scoundrel like my father."  

Qian Ming: "……”
