---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 103"
snippet: "Dong Jiejie, I really like kissing you!"
order: 103
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

That night, after **Guogong Yé** had sent off the last group of colleagues who had come to admire Master Qu's “Ode to Miaoyin”, he was in a good mood. Zhao Huanxu arrived.  

"**Zufu**." As soon as he entered the study, he knelt before **Guogong Yé**. "**Zufu**, **Sun'er** have come to admit One's mistakes."  

**Guogong Yé** looked at him without speaking.  

Zhao Huanxu lowered his head and said, "**Sun'er** has been unfilial. It wasn’t until so much happened around me that **Sun'er** finally realised One has was wrong all along. Father died in battle defending the country, this was his mission and honour as a son of the Zhao family. No one owes anything to me or my younger sister. On the contrary, we should be proud of our Father and conduct ourselves with integrity.  

"**Zufu**, I was wrong. From now on, I will focus on my studies, maintain harmony with my brothers, and take responsibility for disciplining my younger sister. I will never again engage in the foolish behaviour of the past."  

After speaking, he bowed his head to the floor.  

**Guogong Yé**, seeing that Zhao Huanxu had found his way back from his mistakes, felt relieved in his heart. In a gentle tone, he said, "It’s best that you’ve come to understand. Your father left behind only you as his bloodline in this world. Don’t let him down."  

"Yes," Zhao Huanxu responded, rising to his feet. He chatted with **Guogong Yé** for a while longer before taking his leave.  

As he stepped out of the study and into the courtyard, he happened to run into Zhao Huanxi, who was coming to practise swordsmanship.

Zhao Huanxu tilted his head slightly, catching sight of his grandfather standing at the doorway of the study from the corner of his eye. Without making it obvious, he shifted his stance subtly to block Zhao Huanxi’s view.  

“Huanxi, last time when you invited me to the lake, you deliberately didn’t mention that Qu **Gong**, Yanmei **Xiansheng**, and other elders would be there. You only said you invited Qian Ming and the others. Were you worried that I’d outshine you if I went? In the past, it was my fault, and it’s understandable that you were wary of me. But I won’t behave recklessly anymore. I hope you can let go of past grievances as well.”  

Zhao Huanxi looked utterly confused. "I wasn’t wary of you at all. When I invited you, I really had only invited Qian Ming and the others. It was two days later that Qian Ming told me some elders would also be attending. I thought you mentioned you were busy with your writing, so I didn’t bother you again."  

"But if I had known that Qu **Gong**, Yanmei **Xiansheng**, and the other elders would be there, what important would writing make? Being able to seek their guidance even once is worth more than writing a hundred literary works!”

Zhao Huanxi frowned. "Are you saying that if you had gone, you would have sought their advice on scholarly matters? Then it’s a good thing you didn’t go. Those elders came to the lake for leisure, why should they be bothered by you pestering them for advice? That would have completely ruined the mood."  

Zhao Huanxu, both embarrassed and annoyed, retorted, "So you’re saying you didn’t talk to them at all during the outing?"  

"I did," Zhao Huanxi replied, "but I didn’t ask them for scholarly advice. Seeking guidance on such serious matters isn’t something you do during a leisure trip I invited them to. That would have been taking advantage of their goodwill, right?”

Zhao Huanxu gritted his teeth. "You’re right. I was wrong to think that way. **Zufu** is in the study, you should go in."  

Zhao Huanxi happily made his way to the study, greeted **Guogong Yé** with a bow, and said with a bright face, "**Zufu**, I just ran into Huanxu **Tangxiong** in the courtyard. He’s been much more polite to me."  

**Guogong Yé** nodded. "He’s become more sensible, but you’ve always been even more so."  

Being praised directly, Zhao Huanxi blushed with embarrassment.  

**Guogong Yé** walked over and gave him a light pat. "Come, let’s head to the practice grounds."  

By the end of the Xu hour (7 to 9 p.m.), Zhao Huanxi returned to Shenhui Courtyard. Entering his room, he saw Xu Nian’an sitting by the lamp, reading a book. He quietly approached her from behind, suddenly leaned on her shoulder and extending a hand in front of her.  

Xu Nian’an had already heard his footsteps when he entered and wasn’t startled. She glanced at the hand he extended and saw a delicate yellow orchid with a rich fragrance. Its name: Golden Silk Ponytail (金丝马尾).

"Why did you even pick an orchid?" she asked in surprise.  

Zhao Huanxi leaned his head closer. "Why can’t I pick an orchid?"  

Xu Nian’an didn’t know how to respond, so she simply asked, "Where did it come from?"  

"From **Zufu**’s courtyard," he replied.  

She shot him a reproachful glance. "From one of Zufu’s pots, right?" Taking the orchid from his hand, she brought it to her nose and took a careful sniff.

Zhao Huanxi smiled mischievously and sat down beside her. "I ran into Zhao Huanxu in **Zufu**’s courtyard. He seemed different from before. He said he wouldn’t target me anymore."  

"Oh? Really? What did he say exactly?" Xu Nian’an asked.  

Zhao Huanxi repeated the conversation between him and Zhao Huanxu word for word to her.  

Xu Nian’an then asked, "Do you think he meant it sincerely?”

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment, then said seriously, "I’m not sure. But some of the things he said today were strange, as if I knew that Qu **Gong** and the others were going, and when I went to invite him, I purposely didn’t mention it, keeping it from him. But the truth is, I invited him first, and he was the one who said he was too busy."  

Xu Nian’an replied, "You’re right. He hasn’t changed at all. He still tries to put you down. The reason he’s acting like this is just because **Zumu** has been confined by **Zufu**, and his Fifth Branch no longer has any support. So now, he’s trying to perform well in front of **Zufu**."  

Zhao Huanxi was shocked. "**Zumu** has been confined by **Zufu**? Why? When did this happen?"  

Xu Nian’an was silent.  

"This is a matter between the elders. As a younger generation, you shouldn't be asking about it. Hurry and go bathe," she urged him, pushing him away.  

Zhao Huanxi began to act stubborn again. "A kiss, and then I’ll go."  

Xu Nian’an, both embarrassed and annoyed, retorted, "Have you finished writing all the characters you were punished to write?"  

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I’ve finished."  

"I don’t believe you. Let me see them," she said.

Zhao Huanxi went out to the study to get the papers and returned after a while with a thick stack of them.  

As Xu Nian’an checked the characters he had written, he wrapped his arms around her from behind and rested his chin on her shoulder.  

The first thirty or so sheets indeed contained neat, well-written characters, but as she went further, the writing turned into "10,000 words," "15,000 words," and "20,000 words."  

"You..." Xu Nian’an was angry, about to question him. However, before she could, he leaned in and kissed her on the lips. Afterward, he smiled.

"You..."  

She wanted to say something, but he kissed her again, not letting go.  

Xu Nian’an twisted her neck in discomfort and pushed him away.  

He turned her around, holding her face with both hands, and kissed her several times on her forehead, eyes, and nose with a joyful, radiant expression. "Dong **Jiejie**, I really like kissing you."  

Xu Nian’an’s cheeks flushed again, burning with embarrassment. This person clearly had no sense of propriety, saying whatever came to his mind without hesitation.

"Are you done? Will you let go of me?" she said, not looking at him.  

"Dong **Jiejie**, why do I feel like every time I kiss you, you resist a little? Don’t you like being kissed by me?" Zhao Huanxi’s smile faded slightly as he looked at her carefully with his sparkling eyes.  

He still had to ask such a question!  

Xu Nian’an reached out and hit him lightly twice, then twisted her head, struggling out of his grasp and burying her face in his shoulder.  

Zhao Huanxi was momentarily stunned, and then he heard her softly whisper, "I like it.”

Zhao Huanxi looked down and noticed her pink ears, finally realising that her resistance was due to shyness.  

Dong **Jiejie** was actually shy because of him?!  

A sweet, indescribable feeling surged in his heart. He stretched his arms and held her tightly, wishing he could hold her like this for a lifetime, never letting go.  
<br>

The next morning, the young couple went to Yin Furen’s courtyard.  

"What? **Biao Ge** is going back? Why?" Hearing that Yin Luochen was returning to Jinling, Zhao Huanxi looked at him in surprise.

Yin Luochen’s expression was a little heavy as he said, "My **Biao Ge** on my mother side and I have always had a good relationship. Recently, his wife passed away during childbirth. I just received a letter from my mother last night. I have to go back and check on him."  
<div class="author-note">
This "Biao Ge" of Yin Luochen has no direct relation with Zhao Huanxi. Zhao Huanxi is a Biao cousin of Yin Luochen on Yin Luochen's father's side.
</div>

"Ah!" Zhao Huanxi hadn't expected such news and didn't know what to say for a moment. After a long pause, he finally said, "Then I won’t go to Jiyuan Garden today. I’ll accompany you."  

"No need," Yin Luochen replied. "I’m often coming and going, there’s no need for you to send me. I’ll only be gone for about ten days or half a month, and I’ll be back afterward.”

Yin Furen also said, "You go to your Jiyuan Garden; this opportunity is hard to come by. I will send someone to escort Ah Chen back."  

Zhao Huanxi nodded and then reminded Yin Luochen, "Take care on your journey.”

Yin Luochen draped an arm over Zhao Huanxi’s shoulder and smiled at Madam Yin, saying, "They say **Biao Di** has a soft personality. What’s wrong with being soft? Look at him, he’s so caring!"  

"Go, go, go! Hurry up and leave! Once you’re gone, my ears will be more peaceful," Zhao Huanxi said, both embarrassed and annoyed.  

The others in the room couldn’t help but laugh.  

After breakfast, Zhao Huanxi mounted his horse, and Zhiyi and Zhi'er drove the carriage, carrying fruits, snacks, wine, and other items as they made their way to Jiyuan Garden.

Yin Luochen packed up and came over to bid farewell to Yin Furen and Xu Nian'an.  

After he had left, Yin Furen turned to Xu Nian'an and said, "Today, an old friend of mine is coming to visit. I haven't seen her in years. A few years ago, her husband made a serious mistake and was demoted to a distant place. Half a month ago, he was reassigned to the capital as the Assistant Minister of Rites. Her youngest son, who is seventeen this year, will be accompanying her. Please stay and meet them."  

Xu Nian'an was momentarily stunned before realizing what she meant. She nodded and replied, "Thank you, Mother.”

At the end of the Chen hour (7-9 a.m.), Dong Furen arrived with her youngest son, Yu Mingxue.  

Yin Furen, accompanied by Xu Nian'an, received the two of them in the small Flower Hall at Jiaxiang Residence.  

Dong Furen appeared to be two years older than Yin Furen. Although she was not as beautiful as Yin Furen, she was still a woman with grace and charm.  

After Xu Nian'an greeted her, Dong Furen handed her a brocade box and, with warmth, said, "Your mother-in-law and I have been close sisters for many years. If it weren't for being away in another region these past few days, this gift would not have been delayed until now.”

Xu Nian'an turned to look at Yin Furen, who smiled and nodded, saying, "Just accept it, there's no need to stand on ceremony with her."  

"Thank you, Dong Furen." Xu Nian'an accepted the gift and returned to Yin Furen's side.  

Yin Furen looked at Yu Mingxue, who was standing beside Dong Furen. The seventeen-year-old boy seemed to have endured some hardship from his father’s demotion. He didn’t look particularly outstanding, but he had a calm and reserved demeanor. His appearance was also quite pleasant, with delicate, well-proportioned features and fair skin.  

"It’s been years, and Mingxue has grown so much. If I encountered him on the street, I might not even recognize him," Yin Furen said with a smile.

Dong Furen chimed in, "Boys always grow up so quickly. The men in your Zhao family are all tall, and I’m sure Xi **Ge'er** isn't small either. Where is he?"  

When Yin Furen mentioned Zhao Huaxi, she couldn’t help but smile broadly, "He went to attend a lecture at Canglan Academy. He’s not at home, but I’ll bring him over to the house another day to pay his respects to you."  

Dong Furen was surprised, "Oh, Xi **Ge'er** has improved so much! Truly, it's said that a scholar should be treated with respect after being apart for three days!"  
<div class="author-note">
士别三日，当刮目相待 (shì bié sān rì, dāng guǎ mù xiāng dài): A famous Chinese idiom. Literally: "When a scholar has been away for three days, one must rub their eyes and look at them differently". It means that people can change and improve so quickly that you shouldn't judge them by their old reputation.
</div>

Yin Furen laughed and said, "These children... it really proves that saying, 'Marry a wise wife, and you have no worries about his progress'. If you find him a good wife, he’ll certainly strive to improve.”

"That's true," Dong Furen said with a smile, but her eyes subtly assessed Xu Nian'an, with a hint of calculation in her gaze.  

Half an hour later, Dong Furen and her son left, and Xu Nian'an helped Yin Furen back to her room to rest.  

"How do you find this Yu **Gongzi**?" Yin Furen asked, reclining on the bed.  

Xu Nian'an considered her words carefully before replying, "He seems fine. Calm and not rigid, like a person with inner refinement."  

"Dong Furen is a close friend of mine from my time in Jinling. We've known each other for decades, and I know her character well. With your **Wu Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="5th younger sister."></sup>'s talents, marrying into her family would pose no conflict between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law. It all depends Yu **Gongzi**, do you like him?," Yin Furen said.  

"Does Dong Furen intend to match my sister with her youngest son?" Xu Nian'an asked.  

"Why wouldn't she want that? After all, in the future, her youngest son will be related by marriage to Jing Guogong Residence," Yin Furen replied.
