---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 104"
order: 104
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The teaching at Jiyuan Garden is not as rigid as in Canglan Academy. There are no desks; the teacher leads, and wherever they go, everyone sits on the ground. A single topic is discussed with everyone sharing their opinions freely.

Classes also end quite early. Just after the Wei hour (1-3 p.m.), the teacher would say, "That's it for today," and everyone would disperse.  

Zhao Huanxi returned to Jing Guogong Residence and headed straight into the study.  

Xu Nian'an heard about it and came over to check on him, only to find him furrowing his brows as he rummaged through the bookshelf, holding two military strategy books in his hands.

"**Sanlang**, why didn’t you go to Mother’s courtyard to greet her after returning?" she asked gently as she stepped into the study.  

Zhao Huanxi turned to look at her, his head drooping and his expression listless, and said, "Today, the students at Canglan Academy were discussing the war in Liaodong. Some argued that we should establish a trading post at the border to promote trade and ease relations between our dynasty and the Tiele. Others insisted we should send troops to conquer them, eliminating future threats once and for all.  

<div class="author-note">
铁勒 (Tiele) refers to a confederation of nomadic tribes in ancient Central Asia. They were closely related to the Turkic peoples and are considered the ancestors of several later Turkic groups, such as the Uyghurs and Kyrgyz. 
<br>
In historical fiction, they are sometimes used as a stand-in for foreign or nomadic adversaries in stories set during earlier Chinese dynasties.
</div>

They couldn’t agree, so someone said that since our Zhao family has guarded Liaodong for generations, we should have the most authority to speak on the matter. Then they asked for my opinion. I didn’t know anything! Luckily, Wenlin stepped in to cover for me. It was so embarrassing.”

Xu Nian'an walked over, looked up at him, and said, "You’re younger than all of them, so it’s not shameful to know less than they do. Besides, you’ve already realised this and are eager to make up for it. By the time you reach their age, chances are you’ll know far more than any of them."  

She took the military strategy books from his hands and placed them back on the bookshelf. "If you want to learn about matters of war, how can reading books compare to directly asking **Zufu**? You must remember, ‘What is gained from books always feels shallow; true understanding comes from experience. **Zufu** is someone who has already experienced it himself. What he can teach you will surely be more specific and useful than what you can glean from the books alone.”

Zhao Huanxi stretched out his arms and hugged her, resting his cheek against her temple. In a soft, sticky voice, he said, “Dong **Jiejie**, why are you so good to me? You’ve never looked down on me.”  

Xu Nian'an hugged him back and said, “Because I know you have the desire to improve, and one day, you’ll become the person you aspire to be.”  

Comforted by her words, Zhao Huanxi’s mood brightened, and he went with her to see Yin Furen.

Yin Furen asked him about his experience attending lectures at Jiyuan Garden.  

"The students at Canglan Academy are truly different from those at the Imperial Academy. During breaks, Qian **Xiong** and the others talk about food, drinks, and entertainment, while Wenlin, Lu **Xiong**, and Qiu **Xiong** discuss matters of state and the welfare of the people. They are all so talented and concerned about the world. Thinking about how people like them will enter officialdom in the future makes me genuinely happy for the common folk," Zhao Huanxi said, his eyes sparkling with excitement.

Yin Furen and Xu Nian'an listened on, barely suppressing their laughter.  

After they had laughed, Yin Furen asked him, “So, do you think you prefer spending time with Qian Ming and the others, or with Wenlin and Lu Feng?”

Zhao Huanxi thought carefully before replying, "I think that to Wenlin and Lu **Xiong**, I might be like how Qian **Xiong** and the others appear to me; full of flaws and shortcomings, but sincere and without ill intentions. I believe that having a genuine heart in friendships is enough.  I admire Lu **Xiong** and Wenlin, but I won’t look down on Qian **Xiong** and the others just because they are around. If I were to rank my friends in order of importance, what kind of person would I be? Would I still deserve others' sincere treatment?”

Xu Nian'an praised him, saying, "**Sanlang** is absolutely right. There’s no gold without impurities, and no person is perfect. As long as they are not of poor character or morally corrupt, they should all be treated equally.”

Seeing Xu Nian'an praise him, Yin Furen, though still pondering it in her heart, also joined in the praise.  

With his spirits lifted, Zhao Huanxi, feeling much better, waited until the evening, thinking that his grandfather must have finished his meal by then. He then went to Dunyi Hall to seek his guidance on the war in Liaodong.

**Guogong Yé**, having spent decades on the battlefield, naturally had a wealth of experience and stories to share, though no one usually asked to hear them. Now, seeing his beloved eldest grandson interested in the matter, how could he refuse to speak? The grandfather and grandson talked in the study until the middle of the night. It was only when Xiangzhong reminded **Guogong Yé** that he had to attend court in a couple of hours that they finally stopped.

Zhao Huanxi attended Jiyuan Garden for several days, and despite being younger, more good-looking, and from a prestigious background, his sincere and gentle personality stood out. He exuded none of the airs of a spoiled young master. Thus, while his scholarly knowledge was not as advanced as the other students, most people at Canglan Academy, both the students and the teachers, quite liked him. Whenever he asked questions, they were eager to guide him and provide answers.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Xu Nian'an had her **Si Meifu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th younger sister's husband."></sup>, Qiao Nian, inquire for a few days and learned that the Yu family was indeed a respectable and honest family. Yu Mingxue was average in his studies, but he had no major flaws. This sparked her interest.  

Although she had asked Ah Xiu to help her younger sister find a suitable match at Canglan Academy, the options were limited. Most of the students there were older and many were already married, with rare exceptions like Lu Feng and He Xuning. There were some young men in their early twenties who had not yet married, but their families were generally poor, and Xu Nian'an couldn’t bear the thought of her sister marrying into such a life of hardship.

Xu Nian'an saw that Yu Mingxue might not achieve much in his official career, but as the son of an official family, he had some financial standing. With the connections of Yin Furen and Dong Furen, there was no need to worry about Dong Furen being harsh toward her younger sister. At worst, Yu Mingxue could live under the protection of Jing Guogong Residence and lead a modest, respectable life as a small but well-off family. As long as her sister wouldn't suffer, it seemed... acceptable.  

With this plan in mind, Xu Nian'an spoke to Yin Furen, then returned to the Xu family to discuss the matter with her mother and sister. However, upon arriving home, she discovered that her younger sister was not there.

"Lu **Lao Taijun** is ill, and Ah Xiu has taken Junjun to the Lu Residence to visit her," Zheng Furen explained. "They’ve been gone for a while now, so they should be returning soon."  

Xu Nian'an responded, "Ah Xiu can go, but why did she take **Xiao Mei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="youngest sister"></sup> along?"  

Zheng Furen replied, "You don’t know, but after Lu **Lao Furen** met Junjun at Zhaohua Temple last time, she became very fond of her and recognized her as her god-granddaughter. She often sends food and clothing to her. Now that Lu **Lao Furen** is ill, how could your sister not go to visit her?”

Xu Nian'an, not knowing about this development, couldn't help but overthink the situation for a moment.  

After about half an hour, Xu Moxiu returned, but Xu Hui'an was nowhere to be seen.  

"Where is Junjun?" Zheng Furen asked.

Xu Mo Xiu explained, "Lu **Shilang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Vice Minister"></sup> doesn't have a wife, and now that Lu **Lao Furen** is ill, Lu *Xiong** wants to take leave to stay home and care for her. Lu **Lao Furen** was very pleased to see **Xiao Mei**, so I suggested that for her to stay at the Lu Residence to look after her, and she agreed."  

"How can this be proper?" Xu Nian'an looked at Xu Moxiu, "Are you trying to marry our sister to Lu Feng?"  

"Can't I?" Xu Moxiu retorted.

"Do you think this is feasible?" Xu Nian'an asked sternly. "Lu **Shilang** is a third-rank official, and Lu Feng is clearly on the rise. Although they broke off the engagement with Jing Guogong Residence's Fifth Branch, if he were to remarry, what kind of woman wouldn’t he be able to find? You’re relying on your connection with Lu Feng and Lu **Lao Furen**'s fondness for our sister to push her into such a high marriage. But the Lu family doesn’t even have a matriarch. If our sister were to go, she’d have to manage the entire Lu household. If she struggles or makes a mistake, have you thought about the kind of pressure and public opinion she’d have to bear?”

Seeing her eldest daughter getting upset, Zheng Furen quickly intervened, saying, "Let’s speak calmly. Ah Xiu only thinks well of Lu Feng. Do you think he would harm his own sister?"

Xu Moxiu lowered her head in silence.

Xu Nian'an, noticing her brother's reaction, softened her tone and said, "You think Lu Feng is good because you are friends. But the relationship between men and women, especially when living together, is a completely different matter. I’ll tell you this: for our sister to marry into the Lu family, Lu Feng must genuinely like her and be willing to accept her imperfections. He needs to be able to protect her, both from criticism within the family and from outsiders. Only then can she marry him. It shouldn’t be because of your friendship or Lu **Lao Furen**’s favor.”

Zheng Furen glanced at Xu Nian'an and then at Xu Moxiu, cautiously suggesting, "Then... what if we make up an excuse to bring Junjun back?"  

"That’s unnecessary," Xu Nian'an replied. "If we promised to let her stay and then go back on our word, it would seem like there’s something wrong. Anyway, we need to send someone to bring her fresh clothes and remind her that whenever Lu Feng returns home, she should come back. She must avoid any interaction with him to prevent rumors from spreading."  

After making the arrangements, Xu Moxiu saw Xu Nian'an off at the door.

"**Jie**, Lu **Xiong** once said that his expectations for a future wife are simple: one, filial piety; and two, propriety. I think although **Xiao Mei** is young, she completely meets his requirements. Moreover, I know him well. If he is willing to marry, even if it's not out of true love, he will still treat her well. With you opposing this so strongly, can you really guarantee that the person you find for our sister will treat her better than Lu **Xiong** would?" Just before leaving, Xu Moxiu asked Xu Nian'an.  

Xu Nian'an turned around and looked at him, saying, "I didn’t say it directly in front of Mother just now, but didn’t **Xiao Mei** tell you about what happened to her at Jing Guogong Residence?”

When this matter was brought up, Xu Moxiu became furious, clenching her fists and saying, "She did."  

"So, you’re rushing into this because you want to avenge **Xiao Mei**?" Xu Nian'an asked. "Have you considered that if this comes to Jing Guogong Residence’s attention, it would confirm the slanders spread by the Fifth Branch? They’re already claiming that our family has been plotting to use Lu Feng to ruin his engagement with them. The Fifth Branch certainly brought this on themselves, but if this reaches **Guogong Yé**’s ears, we will lose our reputation in his eyes as well.”

Xu Moxiu fell silent. No matter how he resented Jing Guogong Residence's Fifth Branch, he couldn't bring himself to disrespect **Guogong Yé**. After all, if it weren't for him, given the circumstances at the time, his right arm might have been rendered useless.

"Lu Feng is a good match, but this marriage is not one we should pursue," Xu Nian'an said. "Marriage should be about the union of two families, and our Xu family has already benefited from Father's close relationship with **Guogong Yé**. It’s enough that we’ve connected with the Zhao family. To go further would make us appear overly eager to ingratiate ourselves, and that wouldn’t be good for your future career either. My mother-in-law has already found a suitable match for our sister. Once she returns from the Lu Residence, I will take her to meet the family."  

After speaking, seeing that Xu Moxiu had no further words, Xu Nian'an turned and boarded the carriage to head back.
<br>

Lu **Lao Furen**'s health had never been strong, and after the arrival of autumn, she caught a chill from the cold wind, which led to her illness. However, it was not a serious condition.

Xu Hui'an was a filial child. Since Lu **Lao Furen** had treated her well, she devoted herself wholeheartedly to taking care of her. After several days of constant attention, Lu **Lao Furen** gradually recovered.

Having experience from caring for her ailing mother at home, Xu Hui'an was skilled and patient in tending to the sick. She would also cheer up the elderly by chatting and joking with them, which made Lu **Lao Furen** feel incredibly happy.

Ten days quickly passed, and as Lu **Lao Furen**'s recovery progressed, the lectures at the Jiyuan Garden had ended. Before the official start of the new term at Canglan Academy, Lu Feng was able to take a few days of rest at home.

Xu Hui'an then bid farewell to Lu **Lao Furen**.

"Good child, you’ve worked hard these days. When Feng'er returns this afternoon, have him send you home," Lu **Lao Furen** said reluctantly, holding Xu Hui'an's hand.

Xu Hui'an politely refused, and despite Lu **Lao Furen**'s insistence, she remained firm. In the end, Lu **Lao Furen** had no choice but to send a carriage to take her home.

Sighing, Lu **Lao Furen** remarked, "Ai, is this child avoiding Feng'er? Every day, she seems to estimate when Feng'er will return and quietly retreats to her room first. Now, with Feng'er about to take a break, she can't wait to leave and go home, not even waiting for her brother."

Nanny Zhang replied, "Xu family's young lady is simply being cautious, out of propriety. She’s so well-mannered, and **Lao Furen** is still not pleased? Our Feng **Ge'er** is such a fine young man, who wouldn’t like him? The girl is simply shy and well-educated."

Lu **Lao Furen** sighed again and said, "After the New Year, Feng'er will be twenty-one. This marriage really can’t be delayed any longer. When he returns later, I’ll ask him what he thinks.”
