---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 106"
snippet: "Zhao Shuxian snatching groom."
order: 106
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

This young man, surnamed Ling, with the given name Zhi and courtesy name Changsheng, is indeed the grandson of Ling **Gelao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Senior official."></sup>. The reason he intercepted Zhao Huanxi midway was to ask him to invite Miaoyin **Niangzi** on behalf of the Ling Family to add splendour to Ling **Gelao**'s 70th birthday celebration next month.

"Ever since Zhao **Gongzi** hosted the event where Miaoyin **Niangzi** performed music and danced on the pleasure boat, followed by Kuang **Xiansheng** and Qu **Gong** jointly composing the “Ode to Miaoyin”, Miaoyin **Niangzi**'s fame has soared in the capital. Many now long to witness her elegance. However, since that occasion, she has shut her doors to visitors. My Ling Family has sent people three times, but we couldn’t even deliver an invitation. Were it not for being at our wit’s end, we wouldn’t have been so presumptuous as to block Zhao **Gongzi**’s path. I beg for **Gongzi**‘s understanding.” 

The two of them found a nearby teahouse, and after introducing himself, Ling Changsheng explained his purpose to Zhao Huanxi.

Zhao Huanxi listened and apologetically said, “Ling **Gongzi**, it’s not that I’m unwilling to help, but to be honest... to tell you the truth, during that event I hosted, Miaoyin **Niangzi** wasn’t invited by me. It was my wife who arranged for her to come. As for how she managed to invite her, she didn’t share the details with me, so I’m not sure. I think, if you’re sincerely hoping to invite Miaoyin **Niangzi** to celebrate Ling **Gelao**’s birthday, perhaps you should have your wife step in to make the request as well.”

Ling Changsheng blurted out, "How could that be allowed?"
<div class="author-note">
The phrase he said was "这如何使得？" . This is a formal way of saying "How could that possibly be done?" or "That is out of the question!"
</div>

Zhao Huanxi looked at him.

Ling Changsheng quickly realized his words were too hasty and tried to cover up, saying, "What I meant was, women, after all, aren't quite suited for such public appearances.”

Zhao Huanxi said, "Miaoyin **Niangzi** also comes from a respectable family. She entered this line of work out of necessity. Now I understand why, despite being able to gain both fame and fortune, she still chooses to remain secluded and refuses invitations. I imagine she understands that, while you may outwardly invite her, you still look down upon her in your hearts. She is no longer in a position where she cannot survive, so why should she demean herself in such a way?”

After finishing his words, Zhao Huanxi stood up, gave a salute to Ling Changsheng, and said, "Ling **Gongzi**, it’s getting late, I should be heading home now. Farewell."

Upon returning to Jing Guogong Residence, he had dinner with Yin Furen. Afterward, when he returned to the Shenhui Courtyard, Zhao Huanxi told Xu Nian'an about the matter.

Xu Nian'an was astonished after hearing this and said, "You've really grown bold, even daring to offend Ling **Gelao**'s grandson."

Zhao Huanxi replied, "He was in the wrong from the start. He wanted to invite Miaoyin **Niangzi**, someone who is hard to approach, to add prestige to his family, but at the same time, he looks down on her for being an entertainer. How can such hypocrisy go unspoken? Besides, I already said that it was you who invited Miaoyin **Niangzi** on my behalf. When I suggested he have his wife make the request, he reacted with ‘How could that be allowed?’ So apparently, his wife is so precious that asking her to personally invite Miaoyin **Niangzi** would be beneath her. Isn't that just insulting both you and me? Why should I still spare his face?" Zhao Huanxi said indignantly.

Xu Nian'an smiled and reached out to pinch his cheek, saying, "I'm glad to see you stand up for Miaoyin **Niangzi** and speak out on her behalf.”

Zhao Huanxi reached up and gently placed her hand on his cheek, saying, "In the past, I was numb and confused. Even though hardships were right beside me, it was as if I were blind, unable to see, hear, or even think about them. But now, with my eyes open, I see that none of you—my mother, my sisters, and even you—live freely, following your own desires. I can't control what others think or do, but I want to treat you all well. Dong **Jiejie**, I will study hard, pass the imperial examination, and become an official. Even if it's just a minor post in a distant place, I will take you and mother with me. We’ll leave behind the burdens of family and status, and live freely, without constraints.”

This idea was naive and childish, but Xu Nian'an was still touched upon hearing it. She didn’t discourage him, but instead nodded and said, "You can definitely do it. I believe in you.”

With this belief in mind, Zhao Huanxi began to work hard. After practicing martial arts in the evening and taking a bath, he would go to the study to read and practice calligraphy, deliberately avoiding times when he would be alone with Xu Nian'an. When he was with her, he couldn’t control himself and constantly wanted to hug and kiss her. He's afraid that he might lose control one day...

Eighteen (years old)... with still thirteen months and eighteen days to go, he could wait.
<br>

A few days later, it was once again the day the various academies began their ten-day break. Xu Nianan deliberately went home and brought Xu Hui'an to the Jing Guogong Residence to meet with Yu Mingxue.

By coincidence, He Furen also brought He Xuning to Jing Guogong Residence to meet with Zhao Shutong.

In the Fifth Branch, Zhao Shuxian sat on the beauty-leaning by the window, her gaze fixed intently on the view outside.

After all these days, she had finally come to accept, deep in her heart, the reality of the broken engagement with the Lu Family. That night, she truly wanted to die, but after being saved, she no longer felt that way. The Xu Family's lowly daughter was still alive, so why should she die?

Even though the engagement with the Lu Family was called off, she was determined to live well, to live better than that wretched Xu Nian’an, so that she could vent the bitterness of today.

After silently cursing the Xu sisters once more in her heart, she turned to ask her maid, "Why hasn’t Shutong **Guniang** from the Fourth Branch come yet?"

Recently, Zhao Shutong had been coming every day to chat with her and pass the time. Although she usually didn’t pay much attention to her, now that she suddenly hadn’t come, she found herself feeling bored.

The maid grinned and replied, "Shutong **Guniang** is meeting with someone today. Our **Taitai** has also gone to the Fourth Branch.”

"Meeting? With whom?" Zhao Shuxian straightened her posture.

"One heard that his surname is He, and he's a relative of our **Taitai**."

He Xuning? So he really come to meet Zhao Shutong?

Zhao Shuxian recalled the young master from the He Family whom she had seen from afar at Zhaohua Temple. Naturally, he couldn’t compare to Lu Feng, but when compared to others, he was still fair-skinned, handsome, and elegant in manner.

And he even was studying at Canglan Academy.

Zhao Shuxian bit her red lips and suddenly instructed her maid, "Bring out my brocade peacock-feather zhuanghua gauze skirt."
<br>

In the Fourth Branch‘s main hall, **Si Taitai**, **Wu Taitai**, and He Furen were seated at the head, chatting and laughing. Meanwhile, He Xuning and Zhao Shutong, the two young people, sat facing each other in the lower seats, their heads lowered and their faces flushed, remaining silent.

He Furen was quite satisfied with this meeting. The future in-laws seemed simple-minded, and the young girl, shy and introverted, appeared easy to manage, perfectly fitting her expectations of marrying up without being overpowered.

**Si Taitai** was also very pleased. The young master from the He Family was fair-skinned, handsome, and appeared quiet, gentle, and talented. If Shutong were to marry him, she would surely have a good life. As for He Furen, being relatives with **Wu Taitai**, she wouldn’t likely mistreat her Shutong for the sake of familial ties.

Just as the group exchanged meaningful glances, tacitly agreeing to finalise the matter, a shadow flickered at the door, followed by Zhao Shuxian’s voice: “Mom?”

She then seemed to only just notice the guests inside. Standing outside the door, she offered a restrained bow and called out again, “Mom, could *you* step outside for a moment?”

**Wu Taitai**'s expression stiffened slightly. After exchanging pleasantries with He Furen and **Si Taitai**, she hurriedly stepped outside and led Zhao Shuxian away.

After the pair of mother and daughter had left, He furen, still entranced by the luxurious peacock-feather zhuanghua gauze skirt Zhao Shuxian wore, kept glancing outside. Seeing this, **Si Taitai** subtly tightened her grip on the handkerchief in her hand.

Meanwhile, **Wu Taitai** dragged Zhao Shuxian back to her room in the Fifth Branch. Dismissing the maids, she scolded her with a flushed and furious expression, "Didn't I tell you not to wear that dress again? Why are you wearing it today? And even going to show yourself at the Fourth Branch? What exactly are you trying to do?”

"I want to marry He Xuning," Zhao Shuxian said.

**Wu Taitai** was stunned, staring at her daughter in disbelief. "Do you even realise what you're saying?"

Zhao Shuxian's gaze was firm. "Last night, I went to your room to look for *you*. I heard what **Er Ge** said to *you*."

**Wu Taitai** was rendered speechless in an instant.

Tears welled up in Zhao Shuxian's eyes as she said, "**Er Ge** said that **Zufu** has been frequently meeting with those poor scholars recently to find me a husband. Mom, just because the engagement with the Lu Family was called off, does that mean I deserve to marry beneath me and suffer with those impoverished scholars?"

"But your **Zufu**—"  

"**Zufu** is biased toward Xu Nian’an! His own legitimate granddaughter isn’t even worth a strand of hair compared to the daughter of his old friend!" Zhao Shuxian cried, her voice rising in grievance.

**Wu Taitai** was startled and hurriedly covered Zhao Shuxian's mouth lightly, anxiously saying, "What are you shouting for? Be careful, someone might hear you!"

Zhao Shuxian slumped into the chair, bowing her head as she sobbed quietly.

**Wu Taitai** was at a loss. "But He Xuning is someone Mom introduced for the Fourth Branch and Shutong. You..."

"Is Mom‘s pride more important, or is this daughter's future more important?" Zhao Shuxian's voice was cold and detached. "I know the He Family isn't particularly respectable. If not for He Xuning studying at Canglan Academy, I wouldn’t even consider him. But precisely because he studies there, it gives me hope for a chance to rise again in the future."

"But this... how am I supposed to bring it up? And your **Zufu** might not agree either," **Wu Taitai** said, propping herself against the table as she slowly sat down, overwhelmed.

Zhao Shuxian let out a bitter laugh. "Doesn't **Zufu** just want to marry me off beneath my status? Compared to our Jing Guogong Residence, isn't the He Family low enough? He’s looking for someone with humble origins but promising potential, doesn't He Xuning perfectly fit his criteria?"

Meanwhile, He Furen and her son left without seeing **Wu Taitai** again. As He Furen climbed into her carriage  her thoughts began to stir and turn.

He Furen was well aware of the Fifth Branch’s legitimate daughter, Zhao Shuxian, and her broken engagement with the Lu Family. **Wu Taitai** claimed it was the doing of the First Branch, and that **Guogong Yé** had been misled into believing them, which led to the annulment of Shuxian's betrothal. After making inquiries, all He Furen heard were rumours of discord between Zhao Shuxian and the First Branch’s Xu Nian’an. 

Earlier, Zhao Shuxian had dressed extravagantly and made an appearance at the Fourth Branch. Could it be that she was interested in the He Family?  

Come to think of it, it wasn’t surprising. Her son, with his talent and looks, was bound to attract the admiration of young ladies.

But how should she choose between Fourth and Fifth Branch?

The young lady from the Fourth Branch seemed easy to manage, while the one from the Fifth Branch appeared a bit more outspoken. However, the Fourth Branch was a shu branch, while the Fifth Branch was a legitimate branch, with a legitimate **Zumu** backing it. There was a difference in status when such things were spoken of.

He Furen felt that she would need to carefully weigh and consider the situation once she returned home.
<br>

"Look at her, what was she here for? Still wearing that golden peacock feather zhuanghua  skirt—what a thick-skinned person! Everyone outside has been mocking our Jing Guogong Residence for two months because of this, and she still has the nerve to wear it out! She's a young lady, but truly shameless!"  

Zhao Shutong, with a composed expression, poured a cup of tea for the **Si Taitai** and advised, "Mom, please don't get so upset. Be careful of *your* health.”

**Si Taitai** turned her head to look at her, and seeing her calm expression, she asked in surprise, "Aren't you angry?"  

Zhao Shutong shook her head and said, "I’ve known for a long time what kind of person she is, she only cares about herself. I just didn’t expect that after more than ten years of our cousinly affection, I’m still not as important as He Family's son. If she wants it, let her have it. Anyway, I don’t think He Furen is an easy person to deal with, and He **Gongzi** seems to listen to her every word. If he didn’t have some ability, being a daughter-in-law of the He Family wouldn’t be so easy.”

**Si Taitai** looked at her sensible daughter, and a wave of sorrow suddenly filled her heart. She cried, "If you give in to her, what about you? The only thing I’m counting on from the Fifth Branch now is your marriage, and I can’t even secure this small benefit. All these years, I’ve helped them deal with the First Branch—what was I hoping for?"  

Zhao Shutong didn’t know what to do, but she knew in her heart that as far as the He Family was concerned, if the Fifth Branch wanted to fight for it, them from the Fourth Branch would never win. After all, the Fifth Branch are relatives with them.

"If Mom can see clearly the true nature of Wufang through this, it’s not a bad thing. All these years, Mom has fought for **Wu Shenshen**, repeatedly offending **Da Bomu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of father's eldest brother; Yin Furen"></sup>, and still haven't gained a single benefit, while also had to endure constant scolding from Father and **Zufu**. I’ve long felt it was not worth it. But *you* have always been concerned about **Zufu**'s favoritism towards the Fifth Branch and **Zumu** being the Fifth Branch's biological **Zumu**. *You*'ve always thought that relying on them would be the way out. Now, do *you* see? No matter how many benefits the Fifth Branch has, they’ll never share them with others. What they offer to others are things they don’t need, and if they regret it later, they’ll take them back at any time. What use is an ally like that? One can never depend on them for life." Zhao Shutong stood beside **Si Taitai**, wiping away her tears while softly speaking.  

**Si Taitai** became even more heartbroken upon hearing this and hugged Zhao Shutong, crying loudly, "Then what will you do? What should we do?”
