---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 107"
snippet: "Isn't it because I'm tangled up by this little fox spirit?"
order: 107
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Under the osmanthus tree in Zhilan Garden, its fragrance wafting through the air, Yin Furen, Dong Furen, and Xu Nian'an stood by the roadside, chatting while watching the pair of youngster walking side by side not far away.  

Meeting for the first time and strolling together under the watchful eyes of their elders, both of them seemed a little awkward.

As they walked farther away, feeling that their conversation could no longer be overheard by the elders, Yu Mingxue finally spoke up: "My elder brother said that matchmaking is when the adults sit together and talk while we just listen. Why is it, when it comes to you and me, we’re the ones talking while the adults listen from over there?"  

Xu Hui’an couldn’t help but smile and replied, "I have no idea.”

Yu Mingxue turned his head to look at her. He saw her lowered face, her cheeks flushed pink, her long eyelashes, and the two small dimples at the corners of her mouth when she smiled.  

Feeling his own face heat up, he quickly averted his gaze, looked to the side, and said "Ei, look, there's a big dragonfly over there.”

Xu Hui’an raised her head and followed his gaze, and sure enough, she saw a large dragonfly perched on the bulrushes by the lake.  

"Why is it so big? I've never seen such a large dragonfly before," she said in surprise.  

"That's a tiger dragonfly. It can even bite people. I'll catch it and bring it to you," Yu Mingxue said as he headed toward the lake.

Xu Hui’an hurriedly said, "You better not catch it."  

Yu Mingxue replied, "It's fine, I have experience catching these things. I won't get bitten."  

"Even if you won’t get bitten, don’t catch it. It's so close to the lake. If you're not careful and fall in, it’s not a joke. Anyway, we can see it clearly from here. There's no need to catch it in your hand," Xu Hui’an said.

Hearing her words, Yu Mingxue decided to give up and turned back to the path. He said to Xu Hui’an, "Did you know? The tiger dragonfly can be roasted and eaten. It's big and has meat."  

Xu Hui’an widened her eyes and asked, "Have you eaten it? Is it good?"  

Yu Mingxue shyly nodded. "I’ve eaten it. It's delicious, very fragrant.”

Xu Hui’an laughed again. She found it amusing that, although he was the son of a high-ranking official, he spoke about such things as if he were a country boy.  

Yu Mingxue looked at her and suddenly asked, "If I roast it for you, would you dare eat it?"  

Xu Hui’an thought for a moment and replied, "If it's delicious, I would dare.”

Yu Mingxue's eyes lit up as he hurriedly said, "I know many strange and unusual foods. They may be odd, but they're delicious. My parents and siblings won’t dare try them, it's such a waste. Let me tell you..."  

Under the osmanthus tree, Yin Furen had a layer of fallen flowers on her shoulder. She turned to Dong Furen and smiled, "Look, these two young ones seem to be talking about something. They're so animated and laughing like that."  

Dong Furen glanced at Xu Nian'an beside her and smiled. "It seems that Mingxue is very pleased with this matchmaking."  

Xu Nian'an nodded with a smile.
<br>

At the Xu Residence, Lu Feng suddenly paid a visit.  

Xu Moxiu welcomed him into his room, instructed the servant to bring tea, and asked, "What brings you here today? How is Lu **Lao Furen**’s health?"  

"My **Zumu** is fine now, but... sigh, she’s taken a liking to your younger sister and wants her to become her granddaughter-in-law." Not one to hide things from his close friend, Lu Feng didn’t mince words and got straight to the point.

Xu Moxiu paused in the act of pouring tea for him, then continued and placed the teacup in front of him before sitting down across from him.  

To be honest, he naturally hoped that his younger sister would marry Lu Feng. Setting aside family background, just based on Lu Feng as a person, he would have no worries about entrusting his sister to him.  

But what his elder sister said also made sense.

Xu Moxiu hesitated for a moment, then lifted his gaze to look at Lu Feng and said, "You’re late. My **Xiao Mei** has already gone with my **Jiejie** to meet the young master of the Asistant Minister of Rites family, the Yu Family."  

Lu Feng was stunned for a moment and asked, "Really?"  

Xu Moxiu chuckled, "What would I gain from lying to you?"  

Lu Feng let out a relieved sigh and said, "In that case, it will be easier for me to explain when I go back."  

Upon hearing this, Xu Moxiu pretended to be angry and said, "You just wanted an explanation, yet you still came to ask? What if my younger sister hadn't gone to the meeting, what would you have done?”

Lu Feng looked at him and said, "To be honest, I did have the thought of marrying your younger sister. At the time, I thought she could take care of my **Zumu** and make her happy. But then I realized, that wouldn't be fair to your sister. Yet my **Zumu** insists on liking her, and has forced me to come and ask. What can I do? If your sister were at home, I would have had no choice but to ask you for advice on how to handle my **Zumu**."  

Upon hearing this, Xu Moxiu understood that Lu Feng had no real intention of marrying his younger sister, and he couldn't help but feel relieved that he had listened to his elder sister’s advice. The two of them then moved on from the matter and talked about other topics.

"In the next year's Third Month, the academy will be enrolling new students. Shouldn't you remind your **Jiefu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="elder sister's husband"></sup> to prepare well and try submitting an article?" Lu Feng said while sipping his tea, looking at Xu Moxiu.

Xu Moxiu frowned. "But he hasn't even passed the Tongshi exam<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="The childhood exam."></sup>. Can he still get in?"

Lu Feng replied, "The academy doesn't require one to have passed the Tongshi exam to be accepted. It's just that the teachers have high standards and only pick the most talented students. But don't forget, your **Jiefu** has an advantage that others don't have when it comes to the teachers.”

Xu Moxiu understood that Lu Feng was referring to Zhao Huanxi's good looks as his advantage. The teachers were fond of beautiful people, regardless of gender, and Zhao Huanxi was undoubtedly an exceptional "beauty". When he attended the lectures in Jinyuan Garden, the teacher had always treated him with special care.  

If Zhao Huanxi could attend Canglan Academy, it would certainly be ideal. Firstly, the academic atmosphere there was excellent, and the teachers and fellow students were all outstanding, which would be beneficial for self-improvement. Secondly, it would make it easier to keep an eye on him and ensure he was progressing with his studies.

He thought for a moment and decided that the matter was beneficial with no harm, so he nodded and said, "I’ll go speak to him about it. As for whether it works out, it depends on his own abilities."  
<br>

After Xu Hui'an and Yu Mingxue exchanged looks and were both satisfied, Xu Nian'an prepared a carriage to send Xu Hui'an back to the Xu family. She then spent some time chatting with Yin Furen before returning to Shenhui Courtyard to see Zhao Huanxi.  

Originally, he had wanted to follow and watch the excitement (of the matchmaking), but Xu Nian'an didn't allow it. So she wonders if Zhao Huanxi was sulking.

Zhao Huanxi wasn't sulking, he was seriously reading in the study.  

Xu Nian'an really liked watching him concentrate on his work. He seemed so calm and composed, like an adult.  

She had been secretly watching from outside the window for a while, just about to leave when Zhao Huanxi noticed her and cheerfully said, "Dong **Jiejie**, you're back."  

Xu Nian'an had no choice but to go inside. 

"Did the meeting end? How was it?" Zhao Huanxi asked, his eyes sparkling with curiosity, looking at Xu Nian'an with a gossipy expression.

Xu Nian’an found it both amusing and exasperating as she asked, “Why are you so concerned about this?”  

Zhao Huanxi replied with a serious expression, “This concerns our **Xiao Mei**’s future happiness, so of course, I care. Look at my mother, my **san Jie**, and my **Si Jie**. Marrying is like being reborn for a woman. One must choose carefully.”  

Moved by his words, Xu Nian’an sat down beside him on his chair and said softly, “Don’t worry. I’ve done my research this time. The young master of the Yu Family is well-loved at home, has no bad habits, and doesn’t keep any concubines. His most unique trait is probably his love for cooking and experimenting with food, which happens to align perfectly with my younger sister’s interests. I think they’ll get along very well after they’re married.”

Zhao Huanxi turned his body and embraced Xu Nian'an, asking, "Actually, I don’t understand. Why not marry **Xiao Mei** to Lu Feng? He’s so good, and he’s friends with Wenlin. He would surely take good care of her."

"Lu Feng is the only son in his family, with no mother. His father, Lu **Shilang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Vice Minister."></sup>, holds a high position. If **Xiao Mei** married into the Lu family, she would become the matriarch of the family. If she works hard, she might manage, but it would certainly be exhausting, she has to rise early and sleep late. Marrying the young master of the Yu Family is different. The Yu Family has both parents, as well as brothers and sisters-in-law. If there’s any trouble, others will take the burden. The young couple only needs to manage their small family and live their own life peacefully. Lu Feng is indeed a good man, but I choose for my sister to live a lighthearted and happy life," Xu Nian'an explained.

Zhao Huanxi rested his chin on her shoulder and looked at her, asking, "So when you said you wanted to separate from me after three years, was it because you thought being with me would be exhausting, rising early and sleep late?"

Xu Nian'an nodded.

"Then... why did you change your mind and agree not to separate later?"

Xu Nian'an shot him a glance and said, "You’re asking on purpose, aren’t you? Isn't it because I'm tangled up by this *little fox spirit*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="狐狸精 - fox spirit/ fox demon (a playful or teasing term referring to someone as charming or seductive)."></sup>?”

Zhao Huanxi's eyes widened and, with a playful smile, asked, "Who’s the little fox spirit? Who are you calling a little fox spirit?" Just then, he was holding Xu Nian'an, and reached out to tickle her.

Xu Nian'an was tickled so much that she wriggled in the chair, laughing so hard she couldn’t say a word, almost sliding under the desk.

Zhao Huanxi saw her struggling so much, worried she might hurt herself, and quickly pulled her into his arms.

Xu Nian'an leaned on his shoulder, slowly catching her breath. Just as she was about to raise her hand to hit him, she heard him whisper in her ear, "Dong **Jiejie**, as long as you’re willing to stay, not just 'little fox spirit', but even 'little cat spirit', 'little dog spirit', or 'little turtle spirit', I’ll be willing to be whatever you want.”

Xu Nian'an's face turned red, and the hand she had intended to strike him with shifted to grip his shoulder instead.
<br>

Dong Furen is really a decisive person. Once she had made up her mind, she immediately began the series of formalities to arrange the marriage with the Xu Family.  

When Lu **Lao Furen** heard this, she couldn't help but sigh repeatedly, casting a reproachful look at Lu Feng for several days.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

A few days later, something happened at Jing Guogong Residence again.

He Furen went back and thought it over for a few days. Unable to suppress her vanity, she secretly communicated with **Wu Taitai**. One was willing to *marry*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="娶 meaning to marry a woman"></sup>, the other was willing to *wed*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="嫁 meaning to be married of (to a man)"></sup>, and just like that, the marriage was settled. By the time it reached **Guogong Yé**'s ears, the He Family had already come to finalize the arrangement with the Fifth Branch.

Although **Si Taitai** had already suspected something, when her suspicions were confirmed, she couldn't handle the shock and fell ill.

**Guogong Yé** learned the full story from **Si Laoyé** and told him to go back and take good care of **Si Taitai**. **Guogong Yé** himself stayed alone in his study until midnight and did not go to the Fifth Branch’s courtyard.  

While he didn't go to the Fifth Branch’s courtyard, Xu Nian'an, on the other hand, decided to visit the Fourth Branch courtyard. Regardless of the relationship between the branches, when someone in the household falls ill, the niece-in-law should always go to visit. It was the same as when Yin Furen fell ill, people from both the Fourth and Fifth Branch came to visit her.

The day after **Si Taitai** fell ill, Xu Nian'an, following Yin Furen’s orders, went to visit her.  

Since Xu Nian'an's married into the Zhao Family, **Si Taitai** had made things difficult for her in order to flatter the Fifth Branch. Now that the Fourth Branch had been betrayed by the Fifth Branch, **Si Taitai** had no face to see her. So, she had Zhao Shuotong receive her and simply said that she had taken some medicine and fallen asleep.

Zhao Shuotong, feeling quite ashamed in front of Xu Nian'an, dismissed the maidservants and personally poured her a cup of tea. She said, "**Tang Sao**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="wife of an elder Tang brother."></sup>, it was my mother’s mistake in the past, offending you and **Da Bomu**. I don't dare to hope for forgiveness, only dare to ask you to go back and tell **Da Bomu** that my mother will never make such foolish mistakes again.”

Xu Nian'an was someone who clearly distinguished between gratitude and resentment. She naturally didn’t like **Si Taitai**, but this Fourth Branch's **Tangmei** had always been honest and well-behaved. Though she was friendly with Zhao Shuxian, she never followed her lead in causing trouble. So, Xu Nian'an had a good impression of Zhao Shuotong.  

Now, seeing her calmly handling the situation after Zhao Shunian had taken her fiancé, without any anger or resentment and only focusing on caring for her mother, Xu Nian'an looked at her more favorably. She smiled gently and said, "**Tangmei**, don't take it to heart. **Si Shenshen** is just straightforward, no one can truly hold a grudge against her. You should also talk to **Si Shenshen**. I’ve met He Furen once before, and she’s quite formidable. He **Gongzi** listens to her every word, and with such a family, marrying into it may not be the best thing. **Tangmei** is so polite and sensible, luck will surely come in the future."  

Zhao Shuotong blushed, feeling shy, and nodded slightly.

Xu Nian'an returned to Jiaxiang House and shared the situation of the Fourth Branch with Yin Furen. Yin Furen sighed and said, "The character of women in the Fifth Branch is truly despicable, something rarely seen in this world. Now, the Fourth Branch has seen their true nature, they will never help them cause trouble again. It's for the best, this household will be quieter now."

Xu Nian'an poured a cup of fragrant osmanthus tea for her and said, "As for the Fourth Branch‘s Shuotong, I think she's quite a good person. I hope she finds a good marriage.”

Yin Furen nodded and said, "That child was raised by **Si Taitai** and has always been close to Zhao Shuxian. To be able to refrain from causing trouble, her heart must be in the right place (although she wasn't raised in a right environment)."

Xu Nian'an: "….."

"This time, the Fifth Branch's behavior was truly disgraceful. I imagine **Guogong Yé** must be deeply disappointed. If nothing unexpected happens, **Guogong Yé** will likely find a good marriage for Zhao Shutong as a way of making up for this," Yin Furen said.

While the mother and daughter-in-law were talking, Jinyin returned in a hurry and said to Yin Furen, "**Taitai**, something has happened. It seems that Pei Furen from Ding Guogong Residence has noticed something and has detained **San Gu Nainai**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Gu Nainai is the terms to refer to a married young lady (in this case its ZHX’s 3rd sister) used by the servants in her maiden family"></sup> in the mansion. **Nubi** went there this time, but couldn’t even see her. Ding Guogong Residence only said that **San Gu Nainai** was ill and couldn't meet anyone, and then they sent **Nubi** back.”
