---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 109"
snippet: "Clingy Drunk."
order: 109
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In Jing Guogong Residence, Yin Furen had been eagerly waiting at Jiaxiang House for a long time.

Before long, Jinyin, who had been watching at the front, came running back joyfully, saying, "**Taitai**, **San Xiaojie** has returned, **San Xiaojie** has returned!"

As she spoke, Zhao Jiazhen had already entered the courtyard with Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an.

Yin Furen, seeing her beloved third daughter finally free from suffering, couldn't help but feel overwhelmed with emotions. With tears in her eyes, she stepped forward and said, "My child."

Zhao Jiazhen was also overwhelmed with sadness. She called out, "Mom", embraced Yin Furen and cried together.

In the past, she had been bound by that unfortunate marriage, always returning home with a smile on her face. Now, having finally broken free from those chains, she was crying. It was clear that the smiles of the past had merely been a forced facade to avoid worrying her family.

After that, there was little to say. **Guogong Yé** and Ding Guogong had a drink together, and Li Ziliang and Zhao Jiazhen parted ways.

When Zhao Jiaxian and Zhao Jiashan heard the news, they both returned home to congratulate Zhao Jiazhen on finally escaping from that scoundrel Li Ziliang.

Yin Furen specially set up a table of wine.

Zhao Jiazhen and other sisters, including Xu Nian'an, all praised Zhao Huanxi for his great efforts in bringing Zhao Jiazhen back home, and they all toasted him. Zhao Huanxi, foolishly, accepted every drink without refusal. After two rounds, while his sisters and Xu Nian'an were still sober, he was already drunk.

Yin Furen then ordered the servants to help him back to Shenhui Courtyard to rest.

With him gone, the women felt more comfortable to talk.

Now that Zhao Jiazhen's matter had come to a close, and since Zhao Jiashan has four sons to rely on and her mother-in-law shares a good relationship with Yin Furen, there wasn't much to be said about them. Consequently, everyone began to gossip about Zhao Jiaxian's family matters.

Zhao Jiaxian, now heavily pregnant, had become much fuller in figure. Her complexion was rosy, and she appeared to have been living quite well in recent days.

"Last time, Wu Cheng scolded Zhao Huanxu in front of Wenjun Academy, and Zhao Huanxu naturally lost all his dignity. Wu Cheng also lost a great deal of face. My father-in-law was furious, and for the past two months, he has been strictly disciplining him. He is required to return home immediately after class at the academy and is not allowed to go out at night to fool around. His monthly allowance is directly given to me, and if he needs money, he has to ask me for it. 

“He was terribly frustrated and often came to me for comfort. But he brought it upon himself, who would willingly speak softly to console him? Every time he came, I would pretend to have back pain and ask him to massage my waist and back. He would complain while kneading my waist and pounding my back. Now, it seems like a habit, whether something happens or not, he runs to me to massage and pound, and I just treat him like a servant."

Yin Furen, Zhao Jiashan, and Zhao Jiazhen all burst into laughter after hearing her.

After the laughter died down, Yin Furen, with her face glowing, sighed, "Seeing that all of you are doing well, my illness has miraculously improved without even taking medicine. Now, I wonder how your **Da Jie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Eldest Sister"></sup> is doing in Xuanzhou?"

Zhao Jiashan replied, "Speaking of **Da Jie**, I actually received a letter from her not long ago. In it, she mentioned that Xuan **Jie'er** has been following her father and brothers at the border, riding horses and shooting arrows, practicing swordplay, and handling weapons. It really doesn't look proper. She plans to send Xuan **Jie'er** back to the capital for *you* to educate her and has also asked you to find a marriage match for her. She inquired about your health and whether **Dimei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="younger brother's wife."></sup> is pregnant."

Upon hearing this, Yin Furen said, "Looking at the date, Xuan **Jie'er** will be fourteen after the new year. It's time to focus and learn some manners in preparation for meeting a potential match. As for my health, I'm fine. As for Nian'an..."

The three women turned their gaze to Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an, feeling shy, lowered her eyes and gently shook her head.

Zhao Jiazhen quietly asked, "Could it be that my foolish younger brother, still immature, has been neglecting his wife, too busy with reading and practicing martial arts?"

"No, **Sanlang** treats me very well," Xu Nian'an replied, her cheeks slightly flushed.

Yin Furen, knowing that Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi had no much time to consummate their marraige, said, "Having a child is something that depends on fate, it can't be rushed. Now that your father has been sent away by your **Zufu**, the courtyard is peaceful. Xuan **Jie'er** can certainly come back."

Zhao Jiashan then said, "In that case, I'll write a letter to **Da Jie**."

Yin Furen nodded.

After the banquet ended, Xu Nian'an was feeling slightly tipsy. The aftereffect of the grape wine seemed stronger than that of plum wine.

Upon returning to Shenhui Courtyard, she glanced up and noticed that the light in the study was still on. Curious, she walked over and found Zhao Huanxi, who had been helped back earlier, now slumped over the desk, sound asleep.

"Why didn’t you help **San Yé** to bed?" Xu Nian'an asked Songyun.

"When he first got back, **San Yé** insisted he wasn’t drunk and said he wanted to practice calligraphy in the study. Before long, he fell asleep at the desk. When we tried to wake him, he lost his temper, so we thought it best to wait for **Nainai** to decide what to do," Songyun explained.

Xu Nian'an sighed helplessly and stepped into the study. She gently shook him while calling, "**Sanlang**, **Sanlang**? Wake up and go to bed."

Zhao Huanxi groggily woke up, his sleepy eyes lifting to see Xu Nian'an. He immediately broke into a childlike smile. "Dong **Jiejie**, you're back," he said, reaching out to wrap his arms around her waist.

Seeing this, Xu Nian'an realised he was truly drunk. She patted his head gently and coaxed, "Let's go back to the room, wash up, and get some sleep."

"En," Zhao Huanxi responded obediently. He stood up without resistance, allowing Xu Nian'an to guide him back to their main bedroom as if she were leading a little puppy.

After getting him to wash up and go to bed, Xu Nian'an went to wash up herself. When she returned to the room, she was surprised to find that Zhao Huanxi was still awake.

He had been lying face down on the blanket, but when he heard Xu Nian'an's movements as she entered, he suddenly flipped over and sat up. Stretching his arms out towards her, he grinned foolishly, his brows and eyes soft like the moon. "Hug me!"

He was undeniably handsome, and with that pure and harmless expression, it was hard to refuse him.

Xu Nian'an climbed onto the bed, knelt facing him, and leaned in to embrace him.

Zhao Huanxi held her tightly and playfully fell back onto the bed, tilting his head to plant a quick kiss on her forehead. Smiling, he said, "Dong **Jiejie**, I like you."

Xu Nian'an, still in a slightly tipsy state, found lying down like this quite comfortable. Enjoying the moment, she decided to indulge him and said, "I like you too."

"But you haven’t kissed me yet," Zhao Huanxi grumbled discontentedly.

Xu Nian'an tilted her head up and gave him a quick kiss on his chin, repeating softly, "I like you."

Only then did Zhao Huanxi feel satisfied. Holding her tightly, he continued, "I liked you yesterday, I like you today, and I’ll like you tomorrow too."

Xu Nian'an, feeling a bit sleepy, yawned and reached up to rub her eyes.

Zhao Huanxi urged her, "Hurry up and say it!"

Xu Nian'an: "I liked you yesterday, I like you today, and I’ll like you tomorrow."

"I’ll like you the day after tomorrow, the day after that, and the day after the day after that."

"I’ll like you the day after tomorrow, the day after that, and the day after the day after that."

"I'll like you the day after the day after the day after tomorrow, the day after that, and the day after that," Zhao Huanxi continued, piling on more "day afters".

The string of repetitions made Xu Nian'an's head spin. Growing playful yet stubborn, she refused to say anything further.

Zhao Huanxi urged her, "Hurry up and say it!"

Xu Nian'an, trying to catch her breath, replied, "You're hugging me too tightly, I can't breathe. Let go, and I'll say it."

Although Zhao Huanxi was drunk, he still knew how to weigh his options. Unwilling to let go, he said, "Then don’t say it."

He continued muttering his long string of "day afters" until even he got confused. Switching tactics, he declared, "Dong **Jiejie**, I liked you when I was sixteen, I like you at seventeen, and I’ll like you at eighteen..."

Xu Nian'an squinted her eyes, listening to the seemingly endless murmurs by her ear. She couldn’t understand where a drunk person found such boundless energy. When he reached saying he would like her even at sixty-seven, she finally couldn’t hold on any longer and drifted off to sleep.
<br>

The next morning, Zhao Huanxi returned from his martial arts practice, looking slightly awkward.

At the breakfast table, while placing food on his plate, Xu Nian’an asked, "What’s wrong with you?"

Zhao Huanxi glanced up at her and hesitantly asked, "Dong **Jiejie**, did I... do anything strange last night?"

"Why are you asking that?" Xu Nian'an replied, her expression calm but curious.

Zhao Huanxi, looking embarrassed, explained, "The last time I got drunk was when I was thirteen. Mother said I sat on the bed, insisting I was a bamboo shoot, trying to find my bamboo parents, refusing to sleep. My mother had no choice but to have two bamboo poles placed in front of my bed, and only then did I fall asleep."

"Pfft—" Xu Nian'an burst out laughing, unable to hold it in.

Zhao Huanxi’s handsome face turned bright red, and he muttered, "You’re laughing at me! I won’t talk to you anymore!"

Xu Nian'an quickly tried to stifle her laughter, saying, "I won’t laugh at you anymore."

"Did I really do anything strange last night?" Zhao Huanxi asked anxiously.

Xu Nian'an, feeling a bit playful, teased, "You didn’t do anything strange."

Zhao Huanxi had just relaxed a little when he heard her continue, "I thought you were a stutterer, going on with 'day after day after day' like that."

Zhao Huanxi’s expression froze. He vaguely remembered muttering something like ‘day after’, but hearing it from her... he felt utterly mortified. He’s done for, this is so embarrassing!

He turned to run, but Xu Nian'an, struggling to hold back her laughter, grabbed him and said, "Where are you going? Hurry up and eat your breakfast, you'll be late for class."

Zhao Huanxi, his face still red, reluctantly finished his meal, and as usual, Xu Nian'an helped him with his dress up.

While smoothing out his clothes, Xu Nian'an placed both hands on his shoulders, stood on tiptoe, and kissed his cheek. With a bright smile, she looked at him and said, "Huanxi, I like you. I liked you yesterday, I like you today, I’ll like you tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the day after that, and the day after the day after that."

Zhao Huanxi stood there, stunned.

"This is where your 'day after day after day' came from last night," Xu Nian'an said.

Zhao Huanxi understood and laughed, opening his arms to hug her. The two of them embraced warmly for a moment before leaving together, hand in hand.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

A few days later, the Imperial Academy had their Ten-day break, and Ling **Gelao** celebrated his 70th birthday. 

Jing Guogong brought Zhao Huanxi and Zhao Huanxu to attend the banquet. The women present included Yin Furen, Xu Nian'an, and Ning Furen (Er Taitai), who brought her two legitimate daughters-in-law and her unmarried youngest daughter, Chengke. 

As Ling **Gelao** celebrated his birthday, the Ling Residence was naturally filled with distinguished guests and high-ranking officials. Zhao Huanxi, following behind **Guogong Yé**, attracted the attention of many due to his identity as the eldest legitimate grandson of Jing Guogong and his peerless appearance, which was renowned throughout the capital.

Zhao Huanxu was filled with frustration but helpless. After paying his respects to Ling **Gelao** and finally having a chance to speak, he managed to turn the situation around. With carefully prepared words, he earned several compliments from **Guogong Yé**'s old acquaintances.

As for Zhao Huanxi? After greeting the elders, Zhao Huanxi was quickly pulled away by Ge Jingxuan and joined the group of young people to have fun.

After a smooth and lively lunch, Yin Furen took Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an back home.

"**Zufu** must be very happy today. Zhao Huanxu gave Ling **Gelao** a birthday poem in the hall, and it earned him widespread praise," Zhao Huanxi said to Xu Nian'an while washing his hands as they returned to Shenhui Courtyard.

"You seem quite unbothered," Xu Nian'an said with a smile, handing him a handkerchief.

Zhao Huanxi replied, "What is there for me to be bothered about? He earned recognition, made **Zufu** happy, and didn’t do anything to harm me. I’m happy for him as well, after all, we share the same surname Zhao."

Xu Nian'an said, "Wenlin originally wanted to come find you today, but when he knew we were going to the Ling Residence for the banquet, he decided not to come."

"Find me? Well, since there's nothing to do now, I'll go find him," Zhao Huanxi replied.

"No need," Xu Nian'an said. "There’s nothing else, it's just that in next year’s Third Month, Canglan Academy will be enrolling a new batch of students. He wants you to study well and try applying when the time comes."

"Go to Canglan Academy? I... do you think I can?" Zhao Huanxi said, feeling a bit excited but also hesitant.

"Just give it a try, it doesn’t matter whether you succeed or not. The process is simple: in the Second Month, you submit an essay you’ve written to the academy. The teachers there will review it, and if they think it’s good enough, they’ll invite you to take the entrance exam. If you pass, you can start studying. If not, you can try again next year. There’s still plenty of time, so don’t rush," Xu Nian'an said, having finished washing her hands. She sat down at the table with Zhao Huanxi and poured him tea.

Zhao Huanxi, a bit touched, asked, "Did Wenlin come to find me because he thinks I have a chance to get into Canglan Academy?"

Xu Nian'an, holding her tea cup, nodded. "He said that Yanmei **Xiansheng** likes beautiful people."

Zhao Huanxi: "....."

Xu Nian'an chuckled.

Zhao Huanxi realized what she meant, feeling both embarrassed and annoyed. He turned his body away, saying, "Hmph! I’m not talking to you anymore!"

As he turned, he noticed that the large Festive Lantern by the bedside was gone. No wonder he  felt something was off when he woke up this morning.

"Where’s the lantern?" He pointed to the empty spot by the bed and asked Xu Nian'an.
