---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 117"
snippet: "Lantern Festival"
order: 117
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In the blink of an eye, it was the Lantern Festival again. Yin Furen was in good spirits, and the household was peaceful. She brought along Zhao Huanxi and his wife, Zhao Jiazhen, Yin Luochen, and Fu Yunjin to the bustling street market to admire the lanterns.

The streets during the Lantern Festival were even more dazzling than during the Mid-Autumn Festival, with lights so brilliant that they cast a warm glow on the faces of the passersby.

Xu Moxiu and Xu Hui’an also came. When they arrived at the Imperial Street, they met Yu Mingxue, whom they had arranged to meet earlier. Xu Moxiu went to speak with Zhao Huanxi, leaving Yu Mingxue and Xu Hui’an to walk together.  

Yu Mingxue secretly handed Xu Hui’an a warm paper-wrapped parcel.  

Xu Hui’an softly asked him, “What is this?”  

Yu Mingxue also spoke softly, “Sesame glutinous rice cakes from Wang’s shop. Their rice cakes are the best, sweet but not overly so. I bought them on my way here. Try one.”

Xu Hui’an carefully opened the paper package and used her slender fingers to pick up a sesame-coated dry tangyuan<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="boiled or deep-fried balls of glutinous rice flour, usually eaten during Lantern Festival"></sup>, popping it whole into her mouth. After chewing twice, her cheeks puffed up. Smiling with crescent-shaped eyes, she covered her mouth with a small hand and said, “Delicious.”  

Yu Mingxue, finding her both beautiful and adorable, felt his cheeks quietly flush. He turned his face away, lowered his eyes, and smiled faintly. “As long as you like it,” he said.  

“I’ll let my sister try it too,” Xu Hui’an said, trotting over to Xu Nian’an. She stuffed a sesame dry tangyuan into her sister’s mouth and told her that it was brought by Yu Mingxue.  

Xu Nian’an turned back to glance at Yu Mingxue with an approving look, which made his face turn even redder.  

Xu Nian’an then said to Xu Hui’an, “He brought it especially for you, why don't you give him one?”  

Now it was Xu Hui’an’s turn to blush.

The scholars from Canglan Academy had gathered once again on the second floor of the teahouse beside Yuxian Restaurant, chatting over tea. Lu Feng was among them. 

When Xu Moxiu, Zhao Huanxi, and the others arrived, Qiu Tong and his group called out loudly to greet them.  

Following the sound, Zhao Jiazhen looked up towards the second floor and immediately spotted a young gentleman leaning against the railing. His eyes were as bright and cold as starlight, his face as exquisite as jade. He wore a cloak with a broad collar made of black fox fur, and under the lantern’s glow, his black eyes and red lips exuded elegance, composure, and an air of noble grandeur.

Zhao Jiazhen stared a little longer than usual. Noticing this, Xu Nian’an followed her gaze and glanced at the young master. Smiling, she teased, “That Lu Feng, Lu **Gongzi** could be regarded as **Sanlang**’s new lover. Wherever **Sanlang** is, you can count on him to show up.”

Zhao Jiazhen averted her gaze, smiled lightly without responding, and pulled Xu Nian’an along to find Yin Furen.  

Meanwhile, Xu Moxiu, Zhao Huanxi, and the others entered the teahouse.  

Lu Feng, sitting by the railing on the second floor, held a teacup absentmindedly, occasionally glancing downstairs. He was so distracted that he didn’t even notice when Xu Moxiu called out to him.

Xu Moxiu squeezed over to his side and asked, "What are you looking at? So focused."  

Lu Feng snapped back to his senses, withdrew his gaze, and said, "Nothing. Why are you calling me?"  

Yin Furen, Xu Nian’an and others encountered **Si Taitai**, her daughter-in-law, and Zhao Shutong under the lantern pavilion. The two groups decided to merge into one.  

"Look, the Fifth Branch is over there. To avoid coming over and paying respects to us, they’re deliberately pretending not to see us," **Si Taitai** whispered to Yin Furen, glancing at Zhao Huanxu and Zhao Shuxian across the pavilion.  

Yin Furen noticed them too but smiled indifferently. "Who cares?" This was just her nature. So long as she and her children lived well, she never bothered about others.  

After the Lantern King event began, the scholars from Canglan Academy emerged from the teahouse once more. Following the success of the Fei Yue Ling game during last year’s Mid-Autumn Festival, this time, a Fei Deng Ling contest was organised.  
<div class="author-note">
飞灯令- 灯(Deng) means Lantern. This is the game where the players comes up with a poem with the characters 月/moon (for last year) and 灯/lantern (for this year) but the character must be placed in sequence order.
</div>

Unlike last time, where he held back until the end, Lu Feng was highly enthusiastic from the very beginning. A distinguished young gentleman with unparalleled talent and extensive knowledge, he captured the admiration and awe of the crowd.

Zhao Huanxu hated him over for breaking up the engagement with Zhao Shuxian, so he opposed him fiercely. But being alone against a group of over a dozen scholars from Canglan Academy, he was outnumbered. His talent was already inferior, and with such an overwhelming disadvantage, he was forced to concede in defeat before a quarter of an incense stick (around 7-8 minutes) had burned.

As expected, Lu Feng claimed the Lantern King prize yet again.  

Receiving the lantern from the steward, Lu Feng walked straight to Yin Furen. Presenting the lantern to her, he said, "**Bomu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. mean 'aunt'."></sup>, last time **Wanbei**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="lit. younger generation (used when speaking to elder)."></sup> greatly enjoyed the river excursion, thanks to Huanxi’s invitation. Today, let this lantern serve as a small token of gratitude."  

Yin Furen, who had always admired Lu Feng, was delighted by his courtesy. Accepting the lantern, she said warmly, “You’re such a thoughtful child, this is too polite of you.”  

Lu Feng, with a steady gaze and impeccable manners, bowed slightly and said, “It’s only proper.”  

Yin Furen handed the lantern to Zhao Huanxi, saying, “Here, a token of gratitude from Lu **Gongzi**.”  

“Thank you, Lu **Xiong**,” Zhao Huanxi said, then passed the lantern to Xu Nian’an.  

Xu Nian’an, sharp as ever, took the lantern and thanked Lu Feng. She then handed it to Zhao Jiazhen, saying, “**San Jiejie**, didn’t you just praise how beautiful this lantern was? Now you can have a closer look.”  

Zhao Jiazhen, however, did not take it. Smiling, she replied, “Does admiring a lantern mean I must hold it myself? I want you to hold it for me to see.”  

Xu Nian’an laughed as well and said, “My hands are tired. You hold it yourself.”  

Standing nearby, Zhao Huanxi, ever attentive to his wife, quickly took the Lantern King from Xu Nian’an and said, “Stop arguing, stop arguing. I’ll hold it for you both.”  

Xu Nian’an: “.......”  

Zhao Jiazhen laughed so hard that she leaned against Yin Furen’s arm for support.  

Not far away, Yu Mingxue glanced at Xu Hui’an beside him and hesitated before saying, “I heard that during last year’s Mid-Autumn Festival, Lu Feng won the Lantern King for you as well.”  

Xu Hui’an replied, “That wasn’t for me. It was for my **Da Jie**. She asked me to take it home for my mother to see, that’s all.”  

Yu Mingxue felt a little more at ease upon hearing this.  

Xu Hui’an then quietly added, “Besides, compared to the Lantern King, I prefer the sesame glutinous rice cakes you brought me.”  

Yu Mingxue’s eyes lit up at her words, and he eagerly began to share with her all the famous snacks he knew from the capital.  

The group enjoyed the lanterns and strolled around until the end of the Xu hour (around 8-9 p.m.) before returning satisfied.  

Back at the Jing Guogong Residence, Xu Nian’an asked Zhao Huanxi to give the lantern to Zhao Jiazhen.  

Zhao Jiazhen said, “It’s someone else’s return gift, why are you giving it to me?”

Xu Nian’an laughed and said, “Exactly, exactly. We invited him last year, but he only returned the gift today after waiting this long. I have something better, so you might as well take this one.”  

Yin Furen listened to their conversation and slowly realised something. Could it be…  

No, no, although Jiazhen was, in her eyes, the best, she had gone through a divorce after all, and with Lu Feng… it was still too far-fetched.  

Yin Furen forced herself to dispel such unrealistic thoughts, lest aiming too high ended up harming Jiazhen instead.

Zhao Jiazhen finally accepted the lantern, and Zhao Huanxi and his wife bade farewell to Yin Furen before returning to Shenhui Courtyard.

As soon as they entered the room, Zhao Huanxi covered Xu Nian’an’s eyes from behind.

Xu Nian’an laughed and said, “Are you serious? I knew that the lantern was ready and would be delivered today.”

Zhao Huanxi grumbled, “Why are you so smart? You have to pretend to be surprised!”

Xu Nian’an smiled as she was pushed into the room. Then, feigning suspense, Zhao Haunxi said, “Dong **Jiejie**, look, what is this?” as she let go of her hand.

Xu Nian’an exclaimed, “Ai! What a beautiful lantern! I love it, thank you, **Sanlang**!” She turned around and threw herself into his arms.  

Zhao Huanxi replied, “… Is this you pretending to be surprised? It doesn’t seem much different from how you usually act… So all your past happiness was just an act?”  

Xu Nian’an laughed, burying her face in his shoulder, and said, “The truth is, you blinded me with your hands, and I couldn’t even see the lantern clearly. Since you wanted me to pretend to be surprised, I had no choice but to do it this way.”

Zhao Huanxi was both amused and exasperated. What else could he do? He could only turn Xu Nian’an around and let her properly admire the lantern.  

It was probably made by the same craftsman, as this large lantern was almost identical to the previous one, except for the eight different paintings on its surface.
  
The four paintings on the top depicted their first meeting in the peony field, the night of their wedding, when they were passing through the pomegranate-flowered garden’s moon gate, and him painting on her forehead.  

Xu Nian’an immediately called out the inaccuracy, pointing at the wedding night painting and saying, “Why are you making things up? When you lifted my bridal veil with the balance rod that night, you didn’t smile at all!”  
<div class="author-note">
秤杆 (chènggǎn): Scales-pole / Steelyard balance. In traditional Chinese weddings, the groom uses a wooden scale-pole to lift the bride's red veil.
</div>

Zhao Huanxi, feeling guilty, said, “Can’t I make up for the regret in the painting?” 

Xu Nian’an scrunched up her nose, snorted, and then turned her attention to the remaining four paintings at the bottom.

The four paintings below were him carrying her, the two of them hand in hand eating roasted lamb on the main street, they standing under the red plum tree in the snowy day, and also...

Xu Nian'an's both cheeks reddened as she embarrassedly and angrily sternly questioned, "Why did you even draw this?"

Zhao Huanxi intimately hugged her with a shameless look and said, "Didn't you say? Paint the two of us, I didn't paint anyone else."

"Then you can't draw this! What will others think if they see it? You even drew it so detailed, you really have a foundation for painting erotic pictures," Xu Nian'an hit him.

Zhao Huanxi laughed as he hugged her tightly and affectionately asked, "What are erotic pictures?"

“You’re still pretending not to know?!”  

“I’m not pretending.”

“You’re still being stubborn?!”

“My mouth isn’t stubborn, if you don’t believe me, come kiss me.”

“You—”

“Hahahahaha!”

Amidst the laughter and joy, the beautiful lantern slowly spun. After the painting under the red plum tree, there was another depicting a man and a woman standing by the window, kissing. Outside the window, the moonlight was hazy. Inside, the woman, slightly shorter, was on tiptoe, while the man leaned down, tilting his face slightly, with his arms tightly holding her.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After the fifteenth day of the First Month passed, the Imperial Academy and other major academies resumed classes.  

The next major event in Jing Guogong Residence  was the marriage of the Fifth Branch‘s Zhao Shuxian.  

Following the incident with the Lu Family, worried about unforeseen complications, **Wu Taitai** scheduled Zhao Shuxian's wedding to the He Family for the 7th day of the Second Month.  

On the 5th day of the Second Month, Zhao Shuxian paced restlessly back and forth in her room.  

The closer the wedding approached, the more anxious she became. Perhaps it was natural for a woman to feel some unease before marriage. Yet, her relationship with her sister-in-law was not close enough for her to confide in, and the only person in the residence she could share her thoughts with was Zhao Shutong, the very woman from whom she had snatched her fiancé away.  

Since that day, she had not seen Zhao Shutong again.  

Now that her marriage was imminent, **Zufu** had also arranged a new fiancé for Zhao Shutong, a legitimate son of a Count family. With a few months having passed, Zhao Shuxian felt that the grievances between them should have been over, so she sent a maid to inquire about Zhao Shutong's whereabouts.

Before long, the maid returned and said that Zhao Shutong, accompanied by a young maid, was headed towards the small garden with a flower basket in hand.

Upon hearing this, Zhao Shuxian quickly tidied herself up, left her courtyard, and headed for the small garden. Once there, she saw Zhao Shutong by the lotus pond, clipping wintersweet blossoms with her maid.

"Shutong," she called out warmly, just as she used to, with a smile, walking towards her.

Zhao Shutong turned her head and, seeing that it was her, paused in her movements. She said nothing, merely looking at her.  

Under the calm yet indifferent gaze, Zhao Shuxian felt a twinge of guilt. She looked up at the fragrant wintersweet trees along the path and said, "You're in such a good mood today? Picking some plum blossoms?” 

Zhao Shutong slightly tilted her head and instructed the young maid beside her to move further away to another plum blossom tree.

Seeing this, Zhao Shuxian also instructed the maid who had accompanied her to wait at the garden entrance.

"Why have you come looking for me? To make amends?" Zhao Shutong spoke once the area was clear. "Zhao Shuxian, just because I'm good-tempered, do you really think I'm as pliable as clay?"

Zhao Shuxian frowned. "What do you mean? When have I ever treated you like a clay?"

Zhao Shutong let out a bitter laugh, her eyes shifting away. "I've always known you to be foolish, arrogant, and selfish. But out of consideration for the friendship between our mothers and the fact that we're Tang sisters, I've let go of whatever I could. But this time," she turned back, her gaze sharp, "what you did with the He Family disgusts me."

Angered and humiliated by her words, Zhao Shuxian retorted sarcastically, "Foolish, arrogant, selfish? Me? And what about you? Are you any better? In the end, isn't it just about a man that you're cutting ties with me?"

Zhao Shutong looked at her with disappointment. "Even now, you have no idea where you went wrong. Forget it. From now on, we are strangers. There's no point in arguing further. He Furen is shortsighted and snobbish, and He **Gongzi** blindly obeys his mother. After you marry into their family, take care of yourself."

With that, she called for her maid and left.

Zhao Shuxian stared at her retreating figure, fists clenched, chest heaving with rage. She thought bitterly: Isn't it just because she married better and now looks down on me? Pretentious! So what if He Xuning obeys his mother? Once I marry him, he'll listen to me. If Xu Nian'an could do it, why can't I? Just wait, I’ll make him excel in the imperial exams and rise in rank, so everyone envies me!
