---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 125"
snippet: "I, Lu Feng, am twenty-one this year, and only for you have I been captivated by beauty."
order: 125
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

On the third day of the Third Month, by the golden banks of Jinming Lake, peach blossoms dazzled the eyes, and willow trees enshrouded in mist. A green carpet of grass covered the embankments, and the place was teeming with visitors.

Yin Furen and her group alighted from their carriage and strolled along, encountering many relatives and old acquaintances along the way. She was hoping to find a less crowded spot to spread out a mat and sit, but after searching for a long time, all the good spots were taken. Just as she was feeling disappointed, she heard Xu Hui’an’s voice nearby.

"**Jiejie**! **Jiejie**!"

She turned her head and, sure enough, it was Xu Hui’an. The young girl was dressed vibrantly and radiantly, like a tender flower bud, evoking affection. She hurried over from beneath a nearby peach tree, followed by Yu Mingxue.

The two greeted Yin Furen, Xu Nian'an, and the others, explained that they had secured a spot not far away and invited Yin Furen and her group to join them.

Yin Furen followed them for a short distance and was surprised to see Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng under two peach trees, occupying a large area with their mat. 

Yin Furen glanced at the crowded and bustling areas elsewhere, then looked at how spacious and open this spot was. Unable to help herself, she smiled and asked, "How did you manage to secure such a large area?"

Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng greeted Yin Furen with courtesy, and Xu Moxiu responded with a smile, "Lu **Xiong** arrived early and found a spot with the best view. He used the mat to mark it off. When people came to ask, he simply said, 'My family will be here shortly' Others felt too embarrassed to ask him to give it up."

Yin Furen chuckled and said, "It’s not just about being early; it’s about being lucky too. It seems we’ve benefited from your effort."

Lu Feng smiled modestly, exuding elegance as he politely invited everyone to sit. 

After Yin Furen knelt down to sit on the mat, she realised that the spot indeed had an excellent view. The grand and magnificent Luotuo Hong Bridge<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="骆驼虹 (Luòtuó Hóng) literally translates to Camel Rainbow, but it may refer to a bridge or structure with an arched shape resembling a camel's back."></sup> was fully visible, and on it were performers of various kinds, playing instruments, singing, and dancing. The melodious sounds of singing and music lingered in the air, ethereal and captivating.

Black-napped orioles (a type of bird) sang melodiously among the flowering branches, while young swallows fluttered gracefully over the emerald waves.

Yin Furen had not seen such a vibrant spring scene for a long time, and her spirits were greatly lifted. Turning to Zhao Jiazhen and Xu Nian'an, she remarked, "If I’d known, I should have brought some wine along."

Lu Feng, standing nearby, immediately responded, "**Bomu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote=""></sup>, would *you* like to have some wine? I brought Wuling Chun and Lihua Bai. I wonder if you’re accustomed to drinking them?"

Yin Furen exclaimed with delight, "Having something to drink is already a treat. Why would I be picky? Hurry up and bring it over!"

Lu Feng instructed his attendant to warm the wine and personally unpacked the food box, carefully laying out preserved vegetables, fragrant candied fruits, intricately carved honeyed snacks, as well as melon seeds and Chinese torreya nuts.  

Yin Furen watched him, notinf his attentiveness and graceful demeanour, feeling both delighted and regretful. She couldn’t help but think how wonderful it would be if he were her son-in-law.

Yin Luochen, seeing Lu Feng diligently currying favour with Yin Furen, couldn’t resist glancing at Fu Yunjin beside him.  

Fu Yunjin kept his head lowered, showing no reaction.

Yin Luochen sighed quietly to himself.

Once the wine was warmed, Lu Feng personally poured a cup for Yin Furen and then served Zhao Huanxi, Xu Moxiu, and the others.

When it was Zhao Jiazhen's turn, she declined, "No need, thank you. I don’t drink." She then turned to Xuan **Jie’er** and said, "Xuan **Jie’er**, shall we go over there to watch the wild ducks?"

"Alright ah! Let me grab some melon seeds to feed them first," Xuan **Jie’er** replied, scooping up a handful of melon seeds before running off with Zhao Jiazhen.

Yin Furen didn't mind them.

After everyone had a round of wine, Yin Luochen invited Zhao Huanxi and Fu Yunjin to go fishing. Xu Moxiu, Yu Mingxue, and the others also followed to join in the excitement, leaving only Xu Nian'an to stay on the mat with wine and chatting with Yin Furen.

Yin Furen chatted for a while, then glanced over towards Zhao Huanxi's group. After scanning the scene, she couldn’t shake the feeling that someone was missing.

She turned her head and noticed, not far from the edge of Jinming Lake, Lu Feng and Zhao Jiazhen standing face to face, while Xuan **Jie’er** was heading towards Zhao Huanxi and the others.

She almost choked on her sip of wine. Setting down her cup, she covered her mouth with a handkerchief, her gaze fixed unwaveringly on Lu Feng and Zhao Jiazhen.  

"Mother, why just stare? Have some food," Xu Nian'an nudged her arm and picked up an intricately carved candied fruit for her.  

Yin Furen took it with her hand but couldn’t bring herself to eat. She lowered her voice and asked Xu Nian'an, "Since when did Lu Feng and Jiazhen start talking to each other?"

Xu Nian'an chuckled, "Why is Mother so worked up? Or do *you* really think running into Lu Feng here today was purely coincidental?"

Yin Furen: "….."

Xu Nian'an explained to her, "Yesterday, my younger brother specifically sent someone to ask me where we would be going for the spring outing today."

Yin Furen was stunned and uncertain. "You mean… Lu Feng has taken a liking to Jiazhen?"

"Why not? **San Jie** is so beautiful. It’s not just men-even I find her admirable," Xu Nian'an replied with a smile.

Yin Furen glanced again at Lu Feng and Zhao Jiazhen, still finding it unbelievable. "But Jiazhen… She's a divorcee."

"So what? How many women in this world, trapped in unhappy marriages, have the courage and capability to pursue a divorce like **San Jie**? Isn’t that enough to make men admire her all the more?" Xu Nian'an said.

Yin Furen, surprised, remarked, "That’s quite a fresh perspective."

Xu Nian'an curved her lips into a smile. "Mother, think about my words carefully. Doesn’t it make sense?"
<br>

By the lakeside, Zhao Jiazhen watched the wild ducks leisurely swimming on the river's surface and said to Lu Feng, who was beside her, "Lu **Gongzi**, what exactly are you intending to do?"

"I intend to come to your residence and propose marriage. I wonder if you can accept?" Meeting her was no easy task, so Lu Feng didn’t beat around the bush and spoke plainly.

Zhao Jiazhen was stunned. She did not expect him to be this direct. She raised her eyes to look at him in surprise and said, "Sorry, I can't." With that, she turned to leave.

"Zhao **Guniang**, this is the first time in my life that I’ve confessed my love to a woman. You may reject me, but at least let me know why I’ve failed," Lu Feng said to her retreating figure.

Zhao Jiazhen paused slightly but didn’t turn around. Instead, she turned her face slightly and said, "Aren’t you scholars most concerned about reputation and integrity? I’ve been divorced."

"The matter of your divorce, due to your family’s status, has spread widely in the capital. Those with righteous hearts all know the fault was not yours. Turning back from the sea of bitterness was your courage and strength. I can only admire you and hold no prejudice," Lu Feng said. "If I were to marry you, and someone looked down on me because of it, that would insult me and, even more so, insult you. Such people are beneath my regard."  

Zhao Jiazhen remained silent.

The radiant peach blossoms silently surrounded the two standing under the tree, one in front of the other.

After a long while, Zhao Jiazhen asked, "Why me?"

"I once told someone that I had only two requirements for my future wife: first, filial piety, and second, propriety. Filial piety is for family, and propriety is for others, unrelated to me. Because I knew that if I voiced my actual expectations, I might never find someone.

"During the Lantern Festival on the Imperial Street, under the tea house, you raised your head to look up, and the wind blew your hood off. At that moment, I saw your face clearly. In an instant, all the beauties praised in poetry and song over the years, the fair maidens I once fantasised about in my youth, suddenly had a face."

Lu Feng approached her from behind and spoke with blunt sincerity: "My own requirements for a wife are both simple and demanding: she must be able to make me fall in love at first sight. 'Love at first sight' is the elegant way of putting it; to put it bluntly, it is being '*captivated by beauty*'. I, Lu Feng, am twenty-one this year; and only for you have I been captivated by beauty—and for that reason, I seek to marry you."
<div class="author-note">
见色起意 (jiàn sè qǐ yì): Literally, "to see beauty and give rise to [lustful] intent". Usually, this is a negative term used to describe a scoundrel or a "lecher". But it is also often used ironically or self-deprecatingly as a bold, "shameless" way of confessing: "I didn't just fall for your personality; I think you're incredibly hot." This is the same phrase Zhao Huanxi and Xu Nian'an used in Chapter 102.
</div>

Hearing this, Zhao Jiazhen's ears turned red. She muttered, "You rogue!" and ran off, leaving him behind.

Yin Furen, who had been watching from a distance, was anxiously stretching her neck, her heart racing. When she saw Zhao Jiazhen suddenly run off, leaving Lu Feng behind, and Lu Feng didn’t chase after her, she hurriedly asked, "What’s going on? Why did she run off in the middle of the conversation?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "If **San Jiejie** weren’t moved, she would have calmly left. If she were angry, she would have left with a stern face. But for her to leave with flushed cheeks and running, it’s very intriguing. Mom, it seems the Lu Family will come to propose marriage soon."

Yin Furen said, "If they really come to propose, I'll prepare a headpiece for you."

Xu Nian'an laughed, "If they come to propose, shouldn’t *you* prepare one for **San Jiejie**, not me?"

Yin Furen laughed too, "This is a celebration for the whole family.”
<br>

At Zhao Huanxi's side, not a single fish had been caught yet, but Yu Mingxue had already rattled off over thirty different ways to cook fish, making everyone’s mouths water.

Xuan **Jie'er**, unable to hold back, exclaimed loudly, “I really want to eat fish. Which place in the capital makes good fish?”

Xu Hui’an softly replied, “The fish soup at my **Si Jiefu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Fourth older sister's husband."></sup>’s place is quite tasty. I’m not sure if it suits your taste.”

Upon hearing this, Zhao Huanxi immediately said, “Yes, yes, yes! At Yugengqiao, the fish soup is especially delicious. Now that you mention it, I want to eat it again.”

Yin Luochen gave him a slap and scolded, “Keep your voice down! You’re scaring the fish away!”

Zhao Huanxi replied, “You can take your time fishing. I’m going to ask my mother and Dong’er to go to Yugengqiao to eat fish.”

Xuan **Jie'er** chimed in, “**Xiao Jiu**, I’m coming too!”

Yin Luochen: “......”

After spending some time at Jinming Lake, the group then marched grandly to Yugengqiao to enjoy fish soup before finally heading back to their respective residences.
<br>

As soon as Lu Feng returned to the Lu Residence, he went straight to his grandmother’s courtyard.

Lu **Lao Taitai** had just returned from an outing with Lu **Laoyé**. Upon seeing her grandson, she asked, “You rushed out early in the morning and even brought quite a bit of wine and snacks. Where did you go?”

Lu Feng evaded the question and said, “**Zumu**, **Sun'er**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="grandson"></sup> has taken a liking to a young lady and would like to ask **Zumu** to take charge of the matter for me.”

Since the youngest daughter of the Xu Family had been betrothed to the Yu Family, Lu **Lao Taitai** had been worrying about Lu Feng’s marriage. Now, hearing him say he had someone in mind, her spirits were immediately lifted. She asked eagerly, “Which family’s young lady?”

Lu Feng replied, “Jing Guogong Residence’s First Branch, their third legitimate daughter.”

Lu **Lao Taitai**’s expression soured the moment she heard the words ‘Jing Guogong Residence’. Why is it that family again? That old **Guogong** was always calculating, grabbing all the benefits for himself without considering whether his sons and grandsons were virtuous enough to deserve them. He had nearly ruined her grandson’s future once before.

But Jing Guogong Residence's First Branch still had an unmarried legitimate daughter? Ah, yes, there was one, the one who returned home after annulling her marriage at the end of last year.

At this thought, Lu **Lao Taitai&&’s face darkened. She asked Lu Feng, “Is it the one who annulled her marriage with Ding Guogong Residence?”

Lu Feng didn’t hide anything and nodded. “That’s right.”

"Have you lost your mind? You can marry anyone you want, why insist on someone who has annulled a marriage? Absolutely not, I won't agree," Lu **Lao Taitai** said with displeasure.

Lu Feng looked at her sincerely and said, "**Zumu**, in the past, when I hadn’t met the **Er Guniang** from Zhao family's Fifth Branch, Father told me to marry her, and I agreed. Later, after breaking off the engagement with them, you asked me to marry the youngest daughter of the Xu Family. Although I felt she was too young and not a suitable match for me, for your sake, I still went to inquire about it. 

"Before meeting Zhao Family’s First Branch's **San Guniang**, whoever *you* and Father asked me to marry, as long as *you* both deemed her suitable, I had no objections. Even if there wasn’t deep affection, I could always maintain mutual respect in the name of marriage because I had no one I truly liked in my heart.”

Upon hearing his earnest words, Lu **Lao Taitai** couldn’t help but turn to look at him.

“But after meeting Zhao Family’s **San Guniang**, I can’t do it anymore. I love her. If I cannot marry her, marrying anyone else will leave me with regret. Marriage is a matter of parents’ orders and a matchmaker’s arrangements. If *you* and Father insist, I naturally cannot defy. But for the rest of my life, I will no longer experience even a shred of joy in the bond between husband and wife.” 

Both heartbroken and anxious, Lu **Lao Furen** said earnestly, “You’ve only met that Zhao **San Guniang** a few times. How can you be certain she’s your perfect match?”  
<div class="author-note">
Idk why the author suddenly switch to Lao Furen, but the two words basically has the same meaning.
</div>

“**Zumu** once said that there’s such a thing as a connection at first sight between people. **Sun'er** firmly believe there will never be another woman in this world who fits my eyes as perfectly as Zhao **San Guniang** does.”

"But she is a divorcee. Why must you... why must you..."

"Why must I take someone others don't want? **Zumu**, I can’t even decide my own marriage, let alone her, a woman’s fate dictated by her parents’ momentary lapse in judgement, entrusting her to the wrong person. Does this mean she must remarry beneath her status or settle for someone divorced or widowed? Is she only worthy of something worse? If she were *your* granddaughter, would you think the same?" Lu Feng asked.

Lu **Lao Furen** was rendered speechless.

"**Zumu**." Lu Feng suddenly stood up, knelt at Lu **Lao Furen**’s feet, and looked up to plead, "**Sun'er** has never asked anything of *you* in all these years. Today, **Sun’er** only ask for this one thing. Whether I find happiness in this life depends entirely on *your* decision." With that, he rested his forehead on her lap, just like he did when he was a child.

Lu **Lao Furen** had always doted on her only grandson and couldn’t withstand such a heartfelt plea. Her heart softened immediately. She reached out to stroke the back of his head and said, "Go and speak with your father. You’ve always been someone with your own mind. If this Zhao **San Guniang** can win such devotion from you, she must be a good person. As long as you can achieve the happiness you’ve described, **Zumu** won’t oppose this match.”

Hearing Lu **Lao Furen**'s words, he did not immediately go to his father. Instead, he said, "**Zumu**, can *you* speak with Father about this matter."  

Lu **Lao Furen** was surprised. "Why? Worried that your father might refuse?"  

Lu Feng nodded. "Father and Jing Guogong share a close friendship, and the relationship between the First and Fifth Branch of Jing Guogong Residence is delicate. We broke off the engagement with Fifth Branch, yet now we’re proposing to the First Branch. Father might very well refuse out of consideration for Jing Guogong feelings. Since this involves friendships between elders, it’s difficult for me, the son, to address it. But if it's **Zumu**, there's nothing to worry about.”

Lu **Lao Furen** deliberately kept a stern face and said, "If you’ve considered this point, why insist on doing it?"

Lu Feng replied, "Why should the Jing Guogong Residence be allowed to pick and choose me, but we, the Lu Family can’t do the same? **Zumu**, all *you* need to say is, 'If you find it difficult, I’ll go speak with Zhao Family's **Lao Taitai** myself.' Then Father will surely go and speak."

Unable to keep a straight face, Lu **Lao Furen** broke into a smile and patted his back, saying, "No wonder you came to me first. You little schemer, planning all this with your father in mind. Now you’ve got me curious. What sort of exquisite beauty is this Zhao **San Guniang**, that you’re willing to go to such lengths for her?”

Lu Feng showed a rare shy smile, "Once she's married into the family, *you* will have plenty of time to see her."

Lu **Lao Furen** said, "Alright, I’ll speak with your father during dinner." 

Lu Feng hurriedly said, "**Zumu**, please go and speak with Father now. Jing Guogong Residence still has two Biao cousins staying there, and it seems they’re also considering a marriage connection with Zhao **San Guniang**. If we delay even half a day, someone else might get ahead, and I’ll regret it for the rest of my life."

Lu **Lao Furen** widened her eyes in disbelief. "Even half a day can’t wait?"

While helping her to her feet, Lu Feng replied, "It can’t wait, really can't.”
<br>

In the afternoon, at Zhilan Garden in Jing Guogong Residence, the peach and plum trees leaned against each other as the spring scenery flourished under a bright sky.

Zhao Huanxi, Xu Nian’an, and Zhao Jiazhen were flying kites with Xuan **Jie’er** on the open ground by the Lan Lake.

Zhao Huanxi and Xuan **Jie’er** ran around wildly, while Xu Nian’an and Zhao Jiazhen strolled slowly behind them.

“**San Jie**, why do you seem restless today?” Xu Nian’an asked Zhao Jiazhen.

Zhao Jiazhen snapped out of her thoughts and denied it, “How could I be?”

Xu Nian’an said nothing, merely smiled at her, which made her blush under his gaze.  

“You sly one, nothing can escape you,” Zhao Jiazhen said, feigning annoyance. 

Xu Nian’an leaned closer and asked in a low voice, “If the Lu Family comes to propose, would **San Jie** agree?” 

Zhao Jiazhen hesitated for a moment but eventually shook her head.

“Why not?”

Zhao Jiazhen looked ahead at Zhao Huanxi and Xuan **Jie’er** playing on the grass, her gaze tinged with melancholy. “He has never been married, while I have already been through a divorce. Now, in his passionate fervour, he says he wants to marry me. But in the future, if others gossip behind his back, even if he doesn’t take it out on me, just a hint of regret in his expression would be more than I could bear. Since that’s the case, why should I take the risk? It would be better to find a widower with decent circumstances, where we won’t hold each other in disdain.”

Xu Nian’an also looked over at Zhao Huanxi, who was intently directing Xuan **Jie’er** on how to make the kite fly higher.

“Does **San Jiejie** know how I managed to get **Sanlang** to agree to marry me back then?” she suddenly said.

Zhao Jiazhen turned to her, her expression showing interest.

“I told him that if he married me, we would divorce in three years so he could be with Pang **Guniang**. Only then did he agree.”

Zhao Jiazhen widened her eyes in disbelief.

“I knew that Zhao Family would never agree to him marrying Pang **Guniang**, so saying I would help him be with her was just to placate him. But as for divorcing him after three years, at the time, I wasn’t lying.”

Xu Nian’an stopped walking and looked at Zhao Jiazhen. “Originally, the Xu Family’s status didn’t match the Zhao Family’s, and before **Sanlang** came to me, I also had many concerns. What if my husband didn’t like me after I married into the Guogong Residence? What if my mother-in-law looked down on me because of my low birth? What if my sisters-in-law or other female relatives were difficult to get along with? Every time I thought about it, I didn’t dare think too deeply, and the more I thought, the less I wanted to marry.

“Later, when **Sanlang** came to me and said he didn’t want to marry me either, I actually felt relieved. I thought, in that case, we could just act as a fake couple for three years. During that time, I would properly guide this seemingly weak and useless **Guogong Yé**'s eldest legitimate grandson, and that would be my way of repaying the kindness that **Guogong Yé** has shown to our Xu Family.”

As she spoke, Xu Nian’an gave a somewhat self-deprecating yet helpless laugh. “At that time, I never would have imagined that just a few months later, I would be completely won over by this young man who seemed neither a match for me nor my type.”

Zhao Jiazhen couldn’t help but cover her mouth and laugh.

Xu Nian’an looked at her again and said, “**San Jiejie**, I’ve never shared this with anyone before. Telling you today, I want to let you know that feelings between men and women are never fixed. If even **Sanlang** could win me over, I refuse to believe that someone as capable as you couldn’t win over Lu Feng. Especially when he was the one who fell for you first.” 

Zhao Jiazhen looked at her and asked, “Do you support me marrying Lu Feng?”

Xu Nian’an nodded. “For us women, marrying is always a gamble. No one can guarantee whether life after marriage will be good or bad. Since that’s the case, why not choose someone with the best conditions when you have a choice? Even if things don’t end with growing old together, we wouldn’t lose out too much. Think carefully about Lu Feng, **San Jie**. After all, if the Lu Family really comes to propose, Mother will undoubtedly be the first to agree. If, after thorough consideration, you still don’t want to marry Lu Feng, then think about how to convince Mother.”
<br>

At the Lu Residence, the study room was filled with unease as Vice Minister Lu paced back and forth in frustration.

Lu **Lao Furen** sat in the chair with a stern expression, remaining silent.

"Mom, Jing Guogong Residence's Fifth and First Branch have never been on good terms. Our family just withdrew from the engagement with the Fifth Branch, and now we're turning around to propose marriage to the First Branch. And to top it off, it's for the one who returned after a divorce. Isn't this openly slapping the Fifth Branch in the face? How am I supposed to bring this up to **Guogong Yé**?" After pacing for a while and finding himself at a loss, Vice Minister Lu approached his mother to pour out his grievances.

"Why can’t you bring it up? What kind of character does that Fifth Branch‘s girl have? How dare she think herself worthy of our Feng’er! And how did **Guogong Yé** have the audacity to bring it up back then? In the end, just to protect the reputation of that girl from his family, our Feng’er was left with the disgrace of a broken engagement for no reason. Shouldn't **Guogong Yé** compensate us? Let him use the First Branch‘s third daughter to make up for it!" Lu **Lao Furen** huffed angrily.

Vice Minister Lu was about to say more, but Lu **Lao Furen** stood up abruptly and said, "If you can’t bring it up, I’ll go talk to Zhao Family’s **Lao Taitai** myself. I’d like to see why the Fifth Branch‘s daughter is acceptable for our Lu Family, but First Branch‘s daughter isn’t!"

Seeing his mother was adamant, Vice Minister Lu hurriedly stopped her and said, "No, no, no, take it easy. I’ll go, I’ll talk to **Guogong Yé** myself." After all, Zhao Family’s **Lao Taitai** was the Fifth Branch‘s biological grandmother. Rumour had it that her health wasn’t good lately. Sending his mother to talk about this might aggravate her condition.

Lu **Lao Furen88 slammed her cane heavily on the tiled floor and declared, "Tomorrow, you’ll go!"

Vice Minister Lu quickly replied, "Alright, alright, I’ll go tomorrow, I'll go tomorrow!"
<br>

On the 4th day of the Third Month, Zhao Huanxi informed Master Shang (his painting teacher) and Master Qu (his martial art teacher) about his upcoming enrolment at Canglan Academy. The two elderly gentlemen were genuinely happy for him and even gave him gifts, which helped dispel much of the frustration he had been feeling.

In the evening, Zhao Huanxi went to see **Guogong Yê** but was told by Xiangzhong that **Guogong Yé** was out, having been invited to a banquet by Vice Minister Lu.

In a private room at the Changqing Pavilion in the city, **Guogong Yé** and Vice Minister Lu were slightly tipsy from their drinking. Their years of friendship meant that much could be conveyed with just a few words.

Raising his cup, Vice Minister Lu said, "Then it's settled."

**Guogong Yé** nodded and added, "But one thing must be made clear: my granddaughter has been divorced, as your family is aware. Now that you're proposing marriage, there must be no mistreatment of her over this matter in the future."

VicebMinister Lu replied, "Naturally."

**Guogong Yé** clinked glasses with him, and the two downed their drinks in one go.
<br>

In Shenhui Courtyard. Xu Nian'an was still checking the items Zhao Huanxi would bring to Canglan Academy tomorrow—brush, ink, paper, inkstone, daily necessities, hairpins, jade pendants, his favourite fruits and snacks... As she looked over them, a sense of reluctance at the impending separation welled up in her heart.

She turned back to look at Zhao Huanxi, who was sitting at the table.

Zhao Huanxi was sprawled across the table, gazing at her eagerly.

She walked over and asked him, "How often do you think I should visit you?"

Zhao Huanxi sat up straight and said, "Once a day."

Xu Nian'an smiled and said, "Alright." 

Zhao Huanxi wrapped his arms around her waist, leaning against her, and said gloomily, "Forget it. Taking the carriage back and forth takes two hours. Visiting every day would be too tiring. You… let's meet once every five days. Come on the fifth day, and you don't need to come during the ten-day break. I'll come back myself."

Xu Nian'an held his head in her arms and said, "Alright."
<br>

The next morning, when Zhao Huanxi went to Jiaxiang House to greet Yin Furen, the thought of not seeing her son for the next ten days brought tears to Yin Furen's eyes. Yet, thinking about her son's future, she forced herself to hold back her tears. After giving him numerous instructions, she asked Zhao Jiazhen and Xu Nian'an to accompany him to Canglan Academy.

Xuan **Jie’er**, feeling bored at home, insisted on tagging along.

Today was just the registration day. When Zhao Huanxi and his group arrived at the base of Duliang Mountain, Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng were already waiting there.

Lu Feng glanced at Zhao Jiazhen, but Zhao Jiazhen avoided his gaze.

Xu Nian'an asked Zhiyi, Zhi'er, and Xu Moxiu to help carry Zhao Huanxi's luggage up the mountain. Xuan **Jie’er** also wanted to go along, but Xu Moxiu said, "Apologies, the academy does not usually allow women to enter."

This made Xuan **Jie’er** unhappy. She said, "All of you men were born of women, and yet you discriminate against women?"  

Xu Moxiu quickly replied, "It's not like that. The reason the academy prohibits women from entering is to prevent people from bringing in outside singers or dancers for entertainment, which would corrupt the atmosphere."

"Even so, situations should be handled differently! How can you make such sweeping generalisations?" Xuan **Jie’er** said angrily.

Xu Moxiu was about to explain further, but Xuan **Jie’er** turned around and left.

Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen exchanged glances. Xu Nian'an said to Xu Moxiu, "Alright, you two go ahead."

Zhao Huanxi reluctantly gazed at her, wanting to remind her not to forget to visit him in five days. Then he realised that five days later, it would be the 10th of the month, isn't it the ten-day break? Oh no, he hadn't thought of that last night. He wouldn't be able to see Dong **Jiejie** for the next few days. If he had known, he would have asked her to visit him once every three days instead.  

In that instant, he felt quite depressed. After bidding farewell to Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen, he followed Lu Feng and Xu Moxiu up the mountain, turning around three times with every step.

After sending him off, the two of them remembered Xuan **Jie’er**. Turning around, they saw that the girl had already ridden off alone for quite a distance.

Zhao Jiazhen hurriedly wanted to chase after her, but Xu Nian'an stopped her, saying, "Let her have a bit of time. The poor child came to the capital all of a sudden from Xuanzhou, and she's not used to the food, customs, or people here. I think she has been holding it in for a long while.”

Zhao Jiazhen gave up the idea of chasing on horseback and instead boarded the carriage with Xu Nian'an.

"I don’t know if it’s just my imagination, but I feel like that girl seems to have some feelings for your younger brother," Zhao Jiazhen said as she lifted the curtain to glance at Xuan **Jie’er** ahead.

Xu Nian'an had naturally noticed as well. Leaving aside other occasions, just on the third day of the month, when everyone was by the Jinming Lake, Xuan **Jie’er**‘s gaze frequently drifted toward Xu Moxiu.

She sighed and said, "Xuanzhou is a key border town with a rugged culture. Perhaps young men like my brother are rare there. A young girl in the first bloom of youth, innocent and naive, it’s inevitable for her to act recklessly. Let’s not say anything for now. The girl isn’t foolish; after running into a wall a couple of times, she’ll realise it’s not suitable.”

Zhao Jiazhen also looked worried and said, "**Da Jie** has raised Xuan **Jie’er** with this kind of personality. Now she has sent her back to the capital to let mother choose a suitable marriage match for her. But with Xuan **Jie’er**’s temperament, if she doesn’t change, it will be hard to find a good match. Yet if she changes, she won’t be herself anymore."

Xu Nian'an replied, "**San Jiejie**, don’t worry. *When the boat reaches the bridge, it will pass underneath without trouble*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="船到桥头自然直 - a proverb that means things will work out when the time comes"></sup>. Xuan **Jie’er** is straightforward and sincere. I don’t believe we can’t find a man in the capital who shares her temperament.”
