---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 130"
snippet: "Zhao Jiazhen felt a chill run down her spine as she listened to the flawless analysis."
order: 130
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Zhao Jiazhen nodded thoughtfully, “You’re right. Du **Yiniang** indeed has no need to take such a risk. After all, Father has always favoured the two sons she bore. If the First Branch has no legitimate son, and **Zufu** passes the title to my father, he would inevitably be required to adopt a legitimate son from one of the brother's branches to inherit the title. Those two *shu* sons won't have a chance.”

Xu Nian’an continued, “At the time, if **Sanlang** had died young, it would have resulted in two possible outcomes. First, if **Zufu** intended to follow the principle of legitimate primogeniture, he would pass the title to Father. Since Father has no legitimate son, he would have to adopt a legitimate son from one of his legitimate brothers' branches and record him under his name. Second, if **Zufu** thought Father was incompetent and lacked a legitimate son, he might decide to follow Cheng Guogong Residence by prioritising capability and merit over the legitimate firstborn, choosing an heir from the Second or Third Branch instead.

“If it were the first scenario, the First Branch only had one legitimate son at the time, Zhao Huanxu, who definitely couldn’t be adopted into Father’s household. The Second Branch, however, had three legitimate sons, so it would surely be one of Second Branch’s sons brought over to become the heir. If it were the second scenario, when **Sanlang** was struck by lightning, **Wu Shufu** had not yet died heroically on the battlefield, and **Zufu** already favoured him. The Fifth Branch had no reason to harm the legitimate son of the First Branch for the title. Based on this analysis, only the Second Branch had the motive to commit this deed.”

Zhao Jiazhen felt a chill run down her spine as she listened to the flawless analysis. In disbelief, she said, “Could it really be her?”

Xu Nian’an replied, “After figuring this out, I started wondering: was it **Er Shufu** who planned this, or **Er Taitai**? Or did the two of them conspire together? With so much time having passed and no witnesses or evidence, everything can only be speculation. What convinced me that **Er Taitai** had issues was my sister’s ordeal. For the sake of my sister’s reputation, Mother probably didn’t tell you the exact reason the Fifth Branch broke off the engagement with the Lu Family. Today, I’ll tell you, it was because of my sister.”

Xu Nian’an recounted the incident where Xu Hui’an faced danger at the residence to Zhao Jiazhen. Zhao Jiazhen, stunned, covered her mouth with a handkerchief and exclaimed, “Something like that happened? How shameless!”

Xu Nian’an, her expression calm, merely said, “Because of Zhao Shuxian’s prior behaviour in front of me, I was blinded by preconceived notions and my anger. After **Er Taitai** went to see **Zufu**, **Zufu** summoned me. I said the Fifth Branch is the only one with a motive to harm my sister. As a result, **Zufu** ordered the Fifth Branch to break off their engagement with the Lu Family.

"After calming down, the more I thought about it, the stranger it seemed. For this plan to work, luring my sister out of our house was one thing, but the most critical part was getting Shi **Gongzi** out of the Second Branch’s courtyard unnoticed. Since Shi **Gongzi** is mentally unstable, Shi **Da Taitai** always watches over him very closely for fear he might cause trouble. He is rarely, if ever, left alone. In other words, getting him to the small garden to be caught with my sister was far more difficult than luring my sister to the residence. But why was the Fifth Branch so fortunate that both tasks were accomplished?”

“Could it be… that **Er Taitai** secretly gave things a push?” Zhao Jiazhen speculated.

Xu Nian’an nodded. “At the time of the incident, I was busy helping the Second Branch prepare for the banquet and wasn’t in the courtyard. By the time I arrived, Shi **Gongzi** was already missing, and I only saw **Er Taitai** and Shi **Da Taitai** instructing the maids to search for him. Later, I discreetly investigated the events surrounding his disappearance and learned that a maid serving tea in the Second Branch’s courtyard had accidentally spilled tea on Shi **Gongzi**’s robes. Shi **Da Taitai** originally intended to handle the matter herself, but **Er Taitai** insisted on sending her own personal maid to escort Shi **Gongzi** to Zhao Huanchun’s courtyard to change his clothes. It was during this process that Shi **Gongzi** disappeared.”

Zhao Jiazhen unconsciously clenched her fists and asked, “So was this all planned by the Second or Fifth Branch?”

Xu Nian’an replied, “After learning the reason behind Shi **Gongzi**’s disappearance, I started to wonder if I had wronged the Fifth Branch. Could it be that **Er Taitai**, noticing the discord between me and Zhao Shuxian, deliberately set a trap to direct me against the Fifth Branch? After the engagement was annulled, Zhao Shuxian came to my courtyard to berate me. I intentionally brought up the matter to test her, and as a result, she became flustered. Her reaction told me that this was indeed orchestrated by the Fifth Branch. As for **Er Taitai**, she might have simply noticed their plan and helped them with the crucial step of luring Shi **Gongzi** out of tue Second Branch's courtyard. Later, **Er Taitai** played the role of an innocent banquet host caught in the crossfire and brought the matter to **Zufu**, using my accusations against the Fifth Branch to her advantage.”

After hearing this, Zhao Jiazhen furrowed her brows in deep thought and said, “If that’s the case, this person’s scheming nature and malicious intent are truly terrifying. I think we should tell Mother so she can be on guard.”

“If you tell Mother, with her temperament, she won’t be able to act the same as before in front of **Er Taitai**,” Xu Nian’an replied. “**Er Taitai** is so astute. If she realises Mother has caught on, what do you think she’ll do? There’s an old saying: ‘*There may be a thousand years for someone to act as a thief, but not a thousand years to guard against one*'. Right now, she’s in the open, and we’re in the shadows, which works to our advantage. But once she knows that she's exposed, she’ll retract her claws. Without evidence in our hands, it will turn into her hiding in the shadows while we’re out in the open, leaving us at a disadvantage.”
<div class="author-note">
This is a variation of the proverb “只有千日做贼，那有千日防贼” that means "There may be a thousand days to act as a thief, but not a thousand days to guard against one." it is far easier to take the initiative in causing harm (as the thief does) than to sustain efforts to prevent harm over an extended period.
</div>

"That’s true," Zhao Jiazhen said, pacing back and forth in the room before turning to Xu Nian’an. "That incident with the cart outside the city that day must have been her doing as well. The goal was still to provoke a conflict between us and the Fifth Branch, so she could reap the benefits as the bystander. If it were the Fifth Branch’s scheme, there’s no reason for the perpetrators not to recognise Zhao Huanxu. With only two horse-lengths between Huanxi and Huanxu, even if Huanxi collided, Zhao Huanxu wouldn’t have escaped unscathed."

"Exactly. The key now is not to alert the snake in the grass. While ensuring the safety of our own family, the more moves she makes, the more opportunities we’ll have to catch her slipping up," Xu Nian’an said thoughtfully.

"Then what is your purpose of inquiring about the Jiang Family’s **Biao Guniang**’s labor…."
<div class="author-note">
Remember that Zhao Chengke’s fiancee had a similar problem tu Zhao Huanxi before he married Xu Nian'an? But this time the “biao cousin” of the fiancee is already pregnant.
</div>

Xu Nian’an replied, “When Mother mentioned this to me last year, she asked what I thought **Er Taitai** would do. At the time, in front of Mother, I didn’t say anything explicitly. I only mentioned that the best-case scenario for **Er Taitai** would be to delay it until after the **Biao Guniang**’s delivery, so Chengke wouldn’t have to face the prospect of an annulled engagement or marrying into a situation where she’d have to deal with a concubine and illegitimate children. What I really meant was, if my previous deductions about **Er Taitai** were correct, then with her cunning and methods, she would surely try to cause the **Biao Guniang**’s difficult labor and death. According to the information Hu Gang gathered, the Secong Branch has indeed been very active around the Jiang Family these past two months. Now, I just want to verify whether my guess is right or wrong.”

Zhao Jiazhen said, “I’ll send someone to inquire right away.”

Xu Nian’an stood up and grabbed her sleeve, saying, “Make sure it’s someone reliable. We can’t let the Second Branch catch wind of us investigating this matter.”

Zhao Jiazhen nodded solemnly, “I’ll be careful.”
<br>

Xu Nian’an had just woken from her afternoon nap when Zhao Jiazhen arrived. She closed the doors and windows, and the two of them began to talk in the room.

“The Jiang Family’s **Biao Guniang** really did die, both mother and child,” Zhao Jiazhen said, her fingers gripping the handkerchief tightly, turning pale.

Striking lightning to harm Zhao Huanxi, secretly helping the Fifth Branch to ruin Xu Hui’an’s reputation, blocking the cart to obstruct the horses, and now, adding the death of the Jiang Family’s **Biao Guniang**. One after another, each of these incidents involved taking a life. And this is just what they’ve noticed. How many more hidden, unobserved schemes have they yet to uncover? Living under the same roof as such a venomous woman, it sends a chill down one’s spine.

Xu Nian’an noticed Zhao Jiazhen's unease and poured her a cup of tea, urging her to calm down.

After a moment of silence, Zhao Jiazhen couldn't hold herself together any longer. She said, “She’s too terrifying. Let’s go tell **Zufu** and ask him to make a decision.”

“We don’t have any evidence, everything is just speculation. Besides, our reasoning is based on the struggle for our family’s title. How can we bring this to **Zufu**?” Xu Nian’an replied.

Zhao Jiazhen rubbed her forehead and said, “I’m really worried about Huanxi. If this poisonous woman can reach out to harm the Jiang Family, then harming Huanxi at Canglan Academy shouldn’t be difficult for her. Huanxi is currently living at Canglan Academy, which gives her plenty of opportunities to act.”

Xu Nian’an said, “For now, she probably won’t do that. From the incident with my sister and the blocked cart, it’s clear that because **Zufu** is still uncertain about whether to pass the title to the First or Fifth Branch, her current strategy is to encourage infighting between the two branches. Once there is a winner, she’ll deal with the remaining one. If she harms Huanxi now, what about Zhao Huanxu? Wouldn’t she need to harm both of them? If she eliminates both, **Zufu** would surely notice. Or, if she harms **Zufu** as well, she’s taking a huge risk since the eldest legitimate son, **Gongdiē**, is still outside. The chances of success are slim. Besides, there are many students at Canglan Academy. Huanxi lives and eats with his classmates, so it’s not like he’s isolated. That means she has fewer opportunities to act.”

Zhao Jiazhen said, “What should we do next? She’s still a daughter-in-law of the Zhao Family, and we definitely can’t get involved with the Jiang Family’s matters. If we mishandle it, our Zhao Family’s reputation will also be dragged into it.”

Xu Nian’an replied, “We indeed can’t get involved with the Jiang Family’s issues, but the Pozi who met with the people from the Second Branch, she needs to be watched closely. Once we have enough evidence on **Er Taitai**, we’ll bring her over and make her confess to **Zufu**. As for **Er Taitai**, we either don’t act, or if we do, it must be a decisive blow. Otherwise, the consequences will be endless. From now on, we need to keep Hu Gang continuing to monitor the Second Branch. He should send more reliable people, those close to **Er Taitai**, her family, everyone needs to be watched. This is a serious matter, so we’ll have to increase the rewards and ask them to work harder.”

“En.” Zhao Jiazhen nodded anxiously, her worry evident.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the evening, Yin Furen received news that **Guogong Yê** had returned to the residence. She couldn't even wait for him to finish dinner and immediately took Zhao Jiahui to Dunyi Hall.

**Guogong Yé** was rather surprised to see Yin Furen bringing a *shu* daughter to him and asked, "What is the matter?"

Yin Furen replied, "**Gongdiē**, today Jiahui came to me and spoke of some matters. **Erxi** feels they are of great importance and should be reported to *you*, so I brought her here."

**Guogong Yé**'s gaze shifted to Zhao Jiahui, who suddenly knelt down with a thud and burst into tears. "Begging **Zufu** to save Sunnü<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="granddaughter"></sup>!" She recounted everything she had told Yin Furen earlier that morning in full detail.

Upon hearing this, **Guogong Yé**’s face turned ashen. He pressed, “Is what you’ve said true?”

Zhao Jiahui replied, “It concerns my father and brother. **Sunnü** dares not speak recklessly.”

**Guogong Yé** immediately summoned Xiangzhong. “Bring Zhao Huanchao and Zhao Huanyang to me at once!”

Xiangzhong obeyed the order and left. A short while later, he returned with only Zhao Huanchao, as Zhao Huanyang had not yet returned to the residence.

When Zhao Huanchao entered and saw Zhao Jiahui and Yin Furen standing together, a sense of unease welled up in his heart. Just as he was about to pay his respects to **Guogong Yé**, **Guogong Yé** shouted sternly, “Kneel!”

Zhao Huanchao felt a chill in his heart and knelt down in the open space of the study.

“Four years ago, you and your father secretly lent money at exorbitant interest rates outside, which resulted in someone being forced to their death. You then sought favours everywhere to cover up the matter. Is this true?” **Guogong Yé** questioned sternly.

Hearing this, Zhao Huanchao's scalp tingled, and cold sweat broke out on his back. Instinctively, he wanted to glance at Zhao Jiahui but forced himself to refrain, his mind in turmoil as he struggled to formulate a response.

“Think carefully before you speak. There are names and evidence, it’s a matter of a single inquiry for me to verify. If I find out the matter is true and you’re still here making excuses and denying it, your punishment will be even more severe!” **Guogong Yé** said coldly.

The idea of stalling for time and finding a way out later was cut off entirely. Zhao Huanchao hesitated no longer. He kowtowed, his forehead touching the ground, and said, “**Zufu**, please allow me to explain. At the time, it was Father… Father wanted to take over a tavern on Imperial Street but lacked the funds, so he resorted to this desperate measure. **Sun'er** tried to persuade him, but Father wouldn’t listen.”

Yin Furen sneered inwardly. What a dutiful son. When trouble arises, he pushes all the blame onto his absent father. Zhao Mingkun, that blind, rotten-hearted fool, deserved to have such a "filial" son! 

**Guogong Yé** grabbed the inkstone from his desk and hurled it at Zhao Huanchao, hitting him squarely on the head. Blood soon trickled down from his hairline to his forehead, but he dared not move.

At this moment, Zhao Huanyang was brought in by a servant waiting at the residence’s gate. He was completely drunk, staggering as he walked. Upon entering, he seemed unaware of where he was and mistook **Guogong Yé**’s study for some other place, as well as mistaking **Guogong Yé** for someone else.

Seeing Zhao Huanchao kneeling on the ground, he stumbled over and kicked him.  Zhao Huanchao, his face covered in blood, raised his head with a frown, his heart burning with anxiety as he watched Zhao Huanyang totter over to **Guogong Yé**’s desk. 

"Zhu **Daren**, hick—don’t be angry. The servants… didn’t handle things well, but I’ve already thought of—thought of a solution. By then, we can use the name of our Jing Guogong Residence’s horse ranch to transport the horses and then… resell them. My **Zufu**, hick—is the Left… Commander of the Central Army Office. With him around, nothing can go wrong!" Zhao Hanyang drunkenly slurred as he patted **Guogong Yé**’s shoulder, grinning foolishly.

**Guogong Yé** coldly watched him and suddenly grabbed the hand resting on his shoulder. With a twist, a cracking sound echoed in the room.

“Ahhh—ahhhhh!” Zhao Huanyang screamed as the pain sobered him up halfway. He fell to the ground and struggled to widen his drunken eyes to look up. When he finally saw **Guogong Yé**’s face, his complexion turned ashen, and he stammered with a trembling tongue, “**Zu**-**Zu**-**Zu**-**Zufu**!”

**Guogong Yé** couldn’t be bothered to look at Zhao Hanyang. Instead, he fixed his gaze on Zhao Hanchao and said expressionlessly, “Tomorrow, both of your family will pack your belongings and head to Pingliang Prefecture. Isn’t your father ill? As his sons, it is only right for you to fulfil your filial duty and care for him in his sickness.”

Zhao Huanchao’s pupils dilated. In desperation, he shuffled forward on his knees a couple of steps, intending to plead.

**Guogong Yé**’s expression turned cold. When he spoke again, his tone carried the weight of thunder and storm, “Once you’re in Pingliang Prefecture, if you make even the slightest misstep, you’ll be expelled from the family ancestral hall!”  
<div class="author-note">
Being expelled from the family ancestral hall in traditional Chinese culture signifies severe punishment, as it cuts the individual off from their lineage and family ties. It publicly disgraces them, barring them from family rituals, especially ancestor worship, and stripping them of inheritance, status, and protection. This act symbolises disownment and a complete loss of familial identity and honour.
</div>

Zhao Huanchao froze on the ground, a true sense of icy despair slithering like a snake from his scalp down to his spine.

After the members of the First Branch left Dunyi Hall, Xiangzhong brought a cup of tea to **Guogong Yé**.

**Guogong Yé** rested both elbows on the desk, his hands cradling his head.

Xiangzhong noticed **Guogong Yé**’s complexion was faintly pale and said, “**Guogong Yé**, please let the imperial physician take *your* pulse tomorrow. **Laonu** thinks *you* have been overworking yourself lately."

**Guogong Yé** lowered his hands and said, “No need. I’m fine.”

He dropped his gaze, staring intently at the pen holder and other items on the desk. After a long silence, he finally spoke, “Xiangzhong, do you think I’ve been an unworthy head of this family?”

Xiangzhong replied, “**Guogong Yé**, please don’t say that. For decades, *you* were fighting battles in Liaodong and against the Tiele tribes. After returning to the capital, you took on important roles in the Central Army Office. When have **Guogong Yé** ever had leisure? With so many people in the household and so many matters to manage, one's energy is limited. How could one possibly handle everything perfectly?”

**Guogong Yé** shook his head and, in the end, did not speak further.

After arriving at Jiaxiang House, Zhao Jiahui bid farewell to Yin Furen and, accompanied by her maid, walked toward her courtyard. Halfway there, Zhao Huanchao suddenly rushed out, gripping her by the neck and slamming her against the wall.

“**Xiaojie**!” Zhao Jiahui’s maid screamed in alarm.

Zhao Jiahui, struggling against the suffocating grip on her neck, met Zhao Huanchao’s cold, wolf-like gaze in the night. She waved her hand at her maid and ordered them to go first.

"Are you out of your mind? We are your brothers! You think that by helping Yin Furen bring us down, she’ll treat you like a real daughter?" Zhao Huanchao seethed, wanting to strangle her.

Zhao Jiahui didn’t resist, letting him grip her neck as she spread her hands, a hint of a mocking smile on her lips. "Even if she doesn’t treat me like a daughter, with her character, she wouldn’t send me to become a concubine for some dying old man."

Zhao Hanchao froze for a moment, then his anger flared even more. "You’ve been spying on me and **Er Di**?”

"Then what? Do you expect me to believe that you would spare me just because I'm your sister, after using your own sister’s life to pave the way for yourselves?" Zhao Jiahui emphasized the word "sister" sharply, which infuriated Zhao Hanchao, causing him to tighten his grip on her neck.

"Go ahead, you… if you have the guts… then… strangle me!" Zhao Jiahui forced the words out through her throat.

Zhao Huanchao fumed for a moment but ultimately didn’t dare to truly harm her, begrudgingly releasing his grip with a look of deep resentment.

Zhao Jiahui clutched her neck, coughing as she crouched down.

"Go be Yin Furen’s lapdog. I can’t wait to see you live your so-called good life!" Zhao Huanchao sneered, turning to leave.

Tears finally welled up in Zhao Jiahui’s eyes.

Alone in the dark, narrow alley, she sobbed hoarsely, "With parents and brothers like you, I was doomed to a life of misery from the start." Each of them blinded by greed, incapable of anything but climbing over the flesh and blood of their loved ones. She envied Jiarong. Though Jiarong didn’t have a favoured **Yiniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="concubine mother"></sup>, at least her **Yiniang** treated her sincerely.

But of course, she had no right to wallow in self-pity, for in the end, she had done the same as them—trampling over her closest kin for her own gain, leaving them bloodied and broken.
<br>

At Jiaxiang House, Yin Furen dined with her daughter-in-law, daughter, and granddaughter before dismissing Xuan **Jie'er** to her room to review the accounts. She then shared **Guogong Yé**'s decisions regarding the two branches of Zhao Huanchao and Zhao Huanyang with a long sigh: "If only **Guogong Yé** had made this decision earlier, our First Branch wouldn't have had to endure so much hardship."

Upon hearing that her father would not be returning and that even Zhao Huanchao and Zhao Huanyang branches had been sent away to Pingliang Prefecture, Zhao Jiazhen felt a great sense of relief. She comforted Yin Furen, saying, "Better late than never."

However, Xu Nian'an was more concerned with the statement, "If there are any further missteps, they will be expelled from the ancestral shrine." Driving them away was not a permanent solution. In the future, when **Guogong Yé** passes away, as the eldest legitimate son, her father-in-law could still bring the sons of the two *shu* branches back to mourn. Only expulsion from the ancestral shrine, rendering them no longer members of the Zhao family, would be a true and lasting resolution.

With such a golden opportunity, given Yin Furen’s connections and financial resources, she was fully capable of seizing it. The question now was whether she would take a bold gamble for the sake of decades of peace and stability in the future.
<nr>

In the Fifth Branch, out of fear that his leg might heal poorly and leave him disabled, Zhao Huanxu had stayed in recovery for nearly two months before daring to get out of bed and try walking.

Leaning on a crutch with one hand, Jia **Shi** carefully supported his other arm. After just two steps, **Wu Taitai** arrived.

Zhao Huanxu walked over to the table and sat down in a chair.

Jia **Shi** chose not to involve herself in the matters between the mother and son and went to the next room to check on Yu **Jie'er**.

**Wu Taitai** spoke softly to Zhao Huanxu, "Your **Zufu** plans to send the First Branch's Zhao Huanchao and Zhao Huanyang to Pingliang Prefecture to care for **Da Laoyé** during his illness. This is to ensure Yin Furen and Zhao Hanxi can live comfortably, sweeping all the concubine branches out of the way. It seems Zhao Huanxi’s recent admission into Canglan Academy has truly changed your **Zufu**’s opinion of him."

Zhao Huanxu found this topic irritating and had grown to detest Canglan Academy. All that talk about principles and ideals—what were ideals without talent? It was doubtful they could even pass the imperial examinations. Just empty theorising, utterly nonsensical!

"Xu’er, you need to think of a way to win your **Zufu**'s favour again. Your **Zumu** is unreliable, it's already good enough if she doesn't drag you down. Your sister isn’t doing well in the He Family either. You haven’t entered officialdom yet, and if we don’t secure a title, what will we live on if something happens to your **Zufu**?!" As her worries overwhelmed her, **Wu Taitai** couldn’t help but wipe away her tears.

Zhao Huanxu felt even more annoyed. Zhao Huanxi was such a useless person, yet Yin Furen and Xu Nian’an managed to push him to the forefront. As for himself, no one could be relied upon, he had to shoulder everything alone. Sometimes, he couldn’t help but envy that good-for-nothing. If he had been born into the First Branch, wouldn’t everything have fallen into place naturally?

At that moment, three-year-old Yu **Jie’er** came running in from outside, holding a piece of paper filled with writing. She affectionately threw herself onto Zhao Huanxu’s lap, but before she could say anything, Zhao Huanxu forcefully pushed her away.

He frowned and immediately looked at his injured leg, while **Wu Taitai** was startled and anxiously asked, “Are you okay?”

Yu **Jie’er** fell to the ground, scared and in pain. She bit her lip, holding back her tears, not daring to cry.

When Jia **Shi** entered, this was the scene she walked into.

The wet nurse, who had come in a step behind Yu **Jie’er**, quickly rushed over to pick her up.

Only then did Yu **Jie’er** open her mouth and start crying loudly.

Jia **Shi** took Yu **Jie’er** from the wet nurse’s arms, her face cold, and turned to leave.

Zhao Huanxu called out, “What’s with that expression? I didn’t do it on purpose!”

Jia **Shi** abruptly stopped, turned around, and sneered, “Of course, I know it wasn’t intentional, just an instinctive reaction. Your leg is so precious, how could Yu **Jie’er** possibly compare?”

With a loud crash, Zhao Huanxu swept the teacup on the table to the ground and scolded, “What’s with your sarcastic tone? Are you happy now that I’m crippled?”

Jia **Shi** angrily retorted, "She was just leaning on your lap. Did she even touch your injury? You could have simply picked her up to resolve the situation, but instead, you chose to push her down. She’s just a child. What does she understand? If you can’t even show compassion to your own flesh and blood, what great achievements can you possibly have? No wonder Canglan Academy would rather admit Zhao Huanxi than accept you!"

"You—" Zhao Huanxu, furious, stood up with the help of his crutch.

Seeing the situation escalate, **Wu Taitai** quickly stood up and intervened, saying, "Enough, enough." She reminded herself that Jia **Shi**’s family was at least a potential ally, and it was not the right time to worsen relations.

Jia **Shi** let out a cold laugh, then carried Yu **Jie’er** and walked out.

<div class="aewoo-ramble">
  <div class="ramble-title">⟡ Aewoo’s Ramble ⟡</div>
  <p>The whole reveal of Er Taitai's scheme was kinda confusing ngl.</p>
</div>

<br><br>
