---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 133"
order: 133
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

**Guogong Yé** brought Xiangzhong and two guards to Lingde Hall. He instructed Xiangzhong and the guards to stay outside the door and entered the main room alone after dismissing the maids and Pozis. 

"Was it you who orchestrated the matter concerning the heir of Cheng Guogong?" **Guogong Yé** had no patience for pleasantries with **Lao Taitai** and got straight to the point.

**Lao Taitai** didn’t even look at him. She continued fiddling with her prayer beads and said, "Don’t pin everything on me. Living as I am now, what else could I do besides *barely prolong my last gasps of breath*?"  
<div class="author-note">
苟延残喘 (gǒu yán cán chuǎn) is an idiom that basically means to barely cling to life or prolong a desperate situation, often in a humiliating or hopeless manner.
</div>

**Guogong Yé** shouted loudly, “Xiangzhong!”

Xiangzhong pushed the door open, and two guards entered, bringing in Nanny Li, whose mouth was gagged, and hands tied.

Hearing Nanny Li’s muffled struggles, Lao Taitai finally opened her eyes and turned her head to look.

**Guogong Yé** stared at her and coldly ordered, “Beat her.”

The guards pressed Nanny Li face down onto the ground, raised a club, and struck her heavily.

With the first blow, Nanny Li let out a muffled, pig-like scream, cold sweat pouring off her as tears and snot streamed uncontrollably.

**Lao Taitai**’s prayer beads trembled slightly in her hands as she sternly said, “Zhao Kaishuo, are you trying to frame someone and force a confession under torture? Let me tell you, even if you beat her to death today, or even beat me to death, don’t think you can pin any filthy business on us!”

“Beat her to death,” **Guogong Yé** replied coldly, throwing out the words as he turned and walked out the door.

Xiangzhong followed him to the courtyard, where all the maids and servants of Lingde Hall had been gathered.

Everyone listened to the dull thuds of the club striking flesh and Nanny Li’s muffled, agonising cries coming from the main room. Their faces turned pale, and their legs trembled uncontrollably with fear.

**Guogong Yé** glanced at Xiangzhong, who stepped forward and asked, “Is everyone who serves in Lingde Hall gathered here?” 

**Lao Taiyai**'s chief maid, Yichai, turned around and nervously counted the heads, then replied trembling, “Yes.”

“Has Nanny Li been out of the city recently, or gone to any unusual places? If anyone knows, speak up,” Xiangzhong demanded, his cold gaze sweeping over the crowd.

Since **Lao Taitai** never left Lingde Hall, anything underhanded would surely have been entrusted to her confidant, Nanny Li. By determining where Nanny Li had been, they could trace the people involved in the matter.

Everyone kept their heads lowered, silent, as the sounds of Nanny Li being beaten in the main room grew even clearer.

“Don’t think staying silent will save you,” Xiangzhong warned coldly. “We’re not asking Nanny Li because she’s as good as dead. As for the rest of you, your fate depends entirely on how you behave right now. And don’t count on **Lao Furen** to protect you, this household is still under **Guogong Yé**’s command.”

As soon as Xiangzhong finished speaking, an elderly woman who worked in the kitchen at Lingde Hall hurriedly raised her voice, “I know, I know! A few days ago, Nanny Li went to Xiahe Village. That day, she brought back a few white fish to add to the **Lao Taitai**’s meals. Everyone knows **Lao Taitai** only eats white fish raised in Xiahe Village.”

Xiangzhong turned to look at **Guogong Yé**, who nodded in response.

Xiangzhong then ordered the crowd, “Disperse and stay where you’re supposed to. From today onward, no one is allowed to leave Lingde Hall without permission.”

**Guogong Yé** left first.

Xiangzhong glanced into the main room. Nanny Li wasn’t dead yet, but she wouldn’t survive much longer. He instructed the two guards to stop. Since the incident had just occurred, it wasn’t appropriate for a death to happen in the residence right away. Let the Pozi linger for a few more days. Once Xi **San Yé**’s matter was resolved, her death would be well-timed.

He led the guards out of Lingde Hall’s courtyard, ordered them to shut the gates, and stand watch at the entrance.

Inside the main hall, the thick smell of blood hung heavily in the air, so strong it was nauseating.

Nanny Li’s body, from her waist to her thighs, was smeared with blood, and she had already fainted from the ordeal.

**Lao Taitai**, sitting in the corner, looked through the door crack at the only remaining dowry she had brought from her family. Her face was ashen, and her right hand, clutching the prayer beads, trembled uncontrollably. She sat rigidly on the cushion, motionless.

Yichai, terrified, cautiously entered from outside, avoiding Nanny Li’s bloodied, barely-breathing form. She approached the corner and softly called out, “**Lao Furen**.”

**Lao Furen** didn’t respond.

Seeing her pale complexion, Yichai knelt down and gently held her trembling arm, “**Lao Furen**?”

Suddenly, **Lao Taitai** leaned back, and the corner of her mouth drooped, sagging to one side.
<br>

At the gate of the Marquis of Yong'an Residence, Ge Jingxuan got out of his carriage and had the servant announce his arrival to Qian Ming. He hurried to the back courtyard and saw that Qian Ming was sitting under a pomegranate tree full of buds, legs crossed, holding a small teapot, swaying his head while listening to his beloved concubine sing opera.

Upon seeing Ge Jingxuan, Qian Ming greeted him, “Ah, you’ve come at just the right time! Come, listen to the new song my Yuying’er has learned.”

Ge Jingxuan frowned, clearly irritated. He slapped his hand and said urgently, “How can you still have the time for this? Haven’t you heard the news?”

“Hear what?” Qian Ming looked up at him.

"Everyone outside is saying that Huanxi killed Zhu Zhifu. Now Huanxi is locked up in the Imperial Court of Judicial Review  prison. Just now, Lu Feng came to find me and said that Cheng Guogong planned to go to the prison to kill Huanxi to avenge Zhu Zhifu. He was stopped by Jing Guogong and the head of the Imperial Court of Judicial Review, and now he's gone to the palace. Lu Feng is worried that he might put pressure on the Imperial Court of Judicial Review and harm Huanxi in the prison, so he asked me to come to you to think of a solution," Ge Jingxuan said.

Qian Ming was stunned. "Huanxi killed Zhu Zhifu? What kind of joke is this? Why would he kill Zhu Zhifu?"

"Right now, everything is unclear, but when the constables arrived at Zhu Zhifu's house, Huanxi was already there. Huanxi had a long-standing grudge against Zhu Zhifu. Now, Cheng Guogong is suffering the pain of losing his son, and since Huanxi is a suspect, with old grievances and new ones piling up, I’m afraid he won’t wait for the authorities to investigate and will kill Huanxi himself. You need to find a way into the Palace. At the very least, don’t let the Emperor hear only Cheng Guogong’s side of the story."

"Alright, I'll go find my mother right now." Qian Ming didn’t even bother to listen to the opera anymore. He placed the teapot on the table, stood up, and walked towards the door.

"I just went to the Imperial Court of Justice. I wanted to see Huanxi, but the people at there wouldn’t let me. Do you know whose family has connections at the Imperial Court of Judicial Review ?" Ge Jingxuan asked as he walked with Qian Ming.

"Let me think..." The two of them continued talking as they left the courtyard.
<br>

In the Imperial Palace inner courtyard, in the Huaiyue Pavilion.

In the lazy afternoon, Liu Fuyi lay casually on the Guifei couch<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="贵妃榻; The couch used by women to take a nap in ancient times"></sup>, her delicate hands flipping through the music sheet that the Emperor had sent the previous day, feeling somewhat puzzled.

The Emperor was not particularly diligent, yet at this time, he would usually come over eagerly like a dog, so why hadn't he come today?

The palace maids outside chattered away, gossiping.

Her cat jumped from the floor onto the couch and lay down beside her.

Liu Fuyi absentmindedly stroked it a couple of times and lazily called out, "Yongqing.”

The voices of the palace maids outside suddenly grew quieter. One of them responded and hurried inside to bow, saying, "Does Your Highness have any command?"

"What’s all the commotion? Tell me about it," Liu Fuyi said, stroking the cat with her hand, her gaze drifting like a thread of silk towards the warm, sunlit window.

Yongqing furtively glanced at the enchanting beauty lying on the couch, hesitating and not daring to speak.

"Could it be some commotion related to me?" Liu Fuyi turned her gaze back and looked at her with a clear, penetrating gaze.

Yongqing couldn't quite understand this Liu **Meiren**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="美人, literally means Beautiful Woman, was a title given to a woman in the imperial harem."></sup>, who had been favored by the Emperor ever since she entered the Palace, yet had never smiled once. However, since even the Emperor came every day to flatter her, as a lowly palace maid, she naturally did not dare offend her. She quickly lowered her head and whispered, "It’s not that, Your Highness. It’s a commotion related to the Chenyi Palace. One has heard that the legitimate eldest grandson of Jing Guogong killed the heir of Cheng Guogong. Now both Cheng Guogong and Zhen **Fei Niangniang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="妃(Fei) is the title of an Consort, and 娘娘 (Niangniang) could be translated to Your/Her Highness, but it is a specific term to address women in the Imperial harem."></sup> are crying in the Emperor's study."  
<div class="author-note">
美人 (Meiren): literally means Beautiful Woman, was a title given to a woman in the imperial harem. The Meiren rank was usually lower than that of the more senior consorts (Fei, Guifei, etc.) but still indicated a certain level of favour or importance.
</div>

The legitimate eldest grandson of Jing Guogong, wasn't that the husband of Nian'an? Could that boy really have the guts to kill someone?

Liu Fuyi subtly furrowed her brow, then raised a hand to signal Yongqing to help her up. "The weather is nice today. Bring my pipa, let's go for a walk.”

In the Emperor's study, the Emperor was feeling distressed as the pair of siblings, Consort Zhen and Cheng Guogong cried uncontrollably, with snot and tears.

"The person has been caught and sent to the Imperial Court of Judicial Review . Just be patient and wait for the results of the investigation. Why are you two causing such a ruckus? You think **Zhen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="朕(zhèn) means I or the sovereign. It is used by the Emperor to refer to himself."></sup> can just order the legitimate eldest grandson of Jing Guogong to be killed without an investigation?"

Consort Zhen, tear-streaked and pitiful, said, "Your Majesty, **Chenqie**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="臣 (chén) means the subject (of a ruler) while 妾 (qiè) means a concubine, but qiè is also used as a form of self-address of a woman when speaking to her husband. So in the lmperial Harem, the Empress, Consorts and Concubines will use Chenqie as a self-address when they're speaking to the Emperor"></sup>‘s eldest brother has only this one legitimate son. Now that Zhao Huanxi has cruelly tortured him to death, how pitiful is that? Jing Guogong has immense power, and as my brother said, he is bound to protect his legitimate eldest grandson. **Chenqie** and Eldest Brother don't ask for anything else, only that Your Majesty sends someone who will not show favoritism to investigate him. This way, we can feel at ease."

The Emperor replied, "Zhan He, the Minister of the Imperial Court of Judicial Review, is a very fair person!”

Cheng Guogong said, "Your Majesty, Zhan He’s actions and words at the Imperial Court of Judicial Review have clearly shown favoritism towards Jing Guogong. **Chen**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="this is the same Chen as in Chenqie, which means ‘your servant’ [a form of self-address used by a subject when speaking to a ruler]"></sup> cannot trust that he will impartially and justly handle the case of One’s son’s death. One implores Your Majesty to assign someone else to uphold justice for us."

"Then who do you suggest? Who would you trust to be fair and impartial?" the Emperor asked.

Cheng Guogong replied, "Minister of the Ministry of Justice, Fu Li, is renowned for his exceptional judgment in cases, and he is famously fearless in the face of power. In Chen‘s opinion, this case should be transferred to the Ministry of Justice and be overseen by Fu Li.”

Fu Li? Fu Li is indeed skilled in solving cases, but his reputation in the court is mixed. His methods of investigation are ruthless and often contrary to the harmony of the court. Though many major cases have been solved by him, there have also been constant memorials criticizing him.

The Emperor pondered for a moment. Recently, the situation in Liaodong had been unstable, and the current commander there, Li Ying, was a former subordinate of Jing Guogong, Zhao Kaishu. If Fu Li were to take sides with Cheng Guogong in this case, it might alienate the soldiers stationed at the border…

"Why does Your Majesty hesitate? Fu **Daren**‘s character is well known. Has he ever wronged an innocent person? Has he ever let a criminal go free? There is no one in the entire court who upholds the law more impartially than him," Consort Zhen cried as she shook the Emperor’s sleeve.

It’s true that Fu Li upholds the law impartially, but given his character, even if it is ultimately proven that Jing Guogong’s grandson was not the one who committed the murder, that child would likely not leave the Ministry of Justice’s prison unscathed.

The Emperor was about to find an excuse to reject the proposal when suddenly, he heard the faint, melodious sound of a pipa playing in the distance.

The Emperor immediately perked up, his ears attentive as his gaze turned towards the window.

Was it his Liu **Meiren** the one playing the pipa? Since entering the Palace, she had always been aloof and indifferent. Why was she in such a good mood today? Could it be that she had finally been moved by his affection?

In an instant, the Emperor's thoughts became restless. He lost patience with Cheng Guogong and Consort Zhen and bluntly said, "With Fu Li’s methods, can Jing Guogong’s young grandson even survive under his hands? **Zhen** will send someone to speak with Zhan He and ensure that the case is handled fairly. You may leave now."

"Your Majesty!" Consort Zhen still tried to plead.

The Emperor rubbed his forehead and said, "Leave now. You’ve made my head ache with all this noise.”

Consort Zhen and Cheng Guogong exchanged a glance, knowing that continuing to plead would be futile and only cause more harm. They reluctantly held back their resentment, bowed, and withdrew. 

Not long after they left, the Emperor straightened his clothes and, accompanied by the chief eunuch, left the study, following the sound of the pipa.

Consort Zhen, with her maids, hid behind a clump of banana plants near the path leading from the Emperor's study to the back garden. Seeing this scene, her face turned pale with anger. Her eyes darkened, and she turned to leave, heading back to the Chenyi Palace.
<br>

In Jing Guogong Residence, at Dunyi Hall, someone has just been sent to Xiaohe Village. A guard from Lingde Hall came to report, saying that the maidservant of Lingde Hall claimed that **Lao Taitai** had fallen ill.

**Guogong Yé** asked Xiangzhong to go and verify if it was true.

Not long after Xiangzhong left, a servant came to report that *&Da Taitai**, along with First Branch‘s Zhao **San Guniang** and Xi **San Nainai** had come to seek an audience.

**Guogong Yé** paused for a moment in silence and allowed them to enter.

Yin Furen brought Zhao Jiazhen and Xu Nian'an into the study. After paying their respects, she anxiously asked, "**Gongdiē**, have *you* seen Huanxi?”

**Guogong Yé** said, "Huanxi is currently in a cell at the Imperial Court of Judicial Review. He's unharmed, so there's no need to worry too much."

Yin Furen felt a slight relief in her heart but also a sense of obstruction. She asked, "May One asks, how does **Gongdiē** plan to handle this matter?"

Hearing her words, which seemed to carry some implication, **Guogong Yé** raised his gaze to look at her and asked, "What do you know?"

Yin Furen, following Xu Nian'an's earlier advice, said, "**Erxi** knows nothing. One only heard about the cause and effect of Huanxi's incident, which left me with some doubts."

"Don't overthink it. Huanxi is my grandson, and I will personally get him out," **Guogong Yé** replied, then averted his gaze.

Upon hearing **Guogong Yé**'s words, Yin Furen didn't say anything more. As she was leaving with her daughter and daughter-in-law, they happened to run into Xiangzhong hurrying towards them. From his appearance, it was clear that something else had happened. Yin Furen gave Qianhe a glance, who understood and took the maid with her to go in the opposite direction.

Xiangzhong entered the study and reported to **Guogong Yé**, "**Guogong Yé**, **Lao Taitai** has suffered a stroke."

**Guogong Yé** was momentarily stunned, his brows furrowing tightly as he asked, "Is that true?"

Xiangzhong replied, "**Laonu** examined her carefully. The symptoms **Lao Taitai** is showing can't be faked."

"Has Lingde Hall been cleaned up?" **Guogong Yé** asked.

"It has been cleaned," Xiangzhong answered.

"Then go and summon the physician. Have the Fifth Branch take care of her," **Guogong Yé** instructed.

"Yes," Xiangzhong said before withdrawing from the study.

Yin Furen returned to Jiaxiang House, feeling uneasy at the thought of Huanxi being in prison. She asked Xu Nian'an, "Why shouldn't we tell **Guogong Yé** about the people from the Fifth Branch who are in the hands of the Ning Family's Third Master? If **Guogong Yé** goes looking for them himself now, he won't find anyone. If he can't find them, he won't get the truth, and we don't know how long will Huanxi be kept in the prison."

Xu Nian'an replied, "Mom, the incident has just occurred. If we tell *&Guogong Yé** about the Fifth Branch's people being in the Ning Family's hands right now, the Ning Family can easily make up an excuse and brush the matter aside. The key question is, how do we know they are in the Ning Family's hands? Although we know because we had people keeping watch as a precaution, if this information reaches **Zufu**, what will he think? The First Branch suddenly sending people to keep an eye on the Second and Fifth Branch? Will he believe that we are completely innocent in this matter? Also, the Second Branch is clearly keeping these people around for the purpose of using them to bring the Fifth Branch down at a critical moment. If it was these people who killed Zhu Zhifu, then the whole matter with Craftsman Jin becomes unnecessary. I believe, at this point, it's more important to investigate the identity of the person who planned to kill the Craftsman Jin than to tell **Zufu** the whereabouts of these people.”

Zhao Jiazhen also said, "**Dimei** is right. This time, we absolutely cannot let the Second Branch use others to do their dirty work and then escape responsibility. This trouble, if not eliminated, is even more harmful than the Fifth Branch."

At this moment, Qianhe returned and reported to Yin Furen, "**Taitai**, Nanny Li who was the servant by **Lao Taitai**’s side, has been beaten to the brink of death by someone sent by **Guogong Yé**. **Lao Taitai** was shocked and suffered a stroke. The residence is already sending people out to fetch a physician."

Yin Furen was stunned. The investigation had just begun, and Nanny Li had been beaten to the point of near death, while **Lao Taitai** had suffered a stroke. How could they continue the investigation now? Both of the culprits were unable to tell anything now.

**Guogong Yé** was willing to go to such lengths to protect the Fifth Branch?

The group fell into silence for a moment.

After a while, Xu Nian'an said, "**Sanlang** probably won't be back for a while. Nom, **San Jie**, let's go to the prison to see him. We can also bring him some clean clothes."

Yin Furen agreed with this suggestion and quickly said, "It's time we went to see him. Jiazhen, go find some food that can be stored easily and bring it over. The prison's food must be terrible. Ai, how is he supposed to get through these days?”

Zhao Jiazhen said, "It's better not to bring any food that needs to be stored. Given the conditions in the prison, we don't want to attract rats. Huanxi is terrified of rats."

Xu Nian'an, startled, asked, "**Sanlang** is afraid of rats?" Since she had never seen a live rat since entering the residence, she hadn't known that Zhao Huanxi was so afraid of them.

"Yes," Yin Furen explained. "When he was a child, I took him to a village to play and saw a child with a damaged nose. Upon asking, we learned that the child's nose had been bitten off by a rat when he was an infant. Since then, Huanxi has been terrified of rats.”

"Does anyone in the residence know about this?" Xu Nian'an asked.

Yin Furen and Zhao Jiazhen exchanged glances. They had never thought that being afraid of rats was such a big deal. In the residence, it was just a matter of paying attention to pest control. But now that Huanxi was in prison, if someone wanted to harm him...

"Qianhe, quickly go and get the best rat poison from Nanny Su, the one we've always used in the residence," Yin Furen instructed urgently.

Xu Nian'an said, "Then I will go back to Shenhui Courtyard to pack **Sanlang**'s clothes.”

Half an hour later, Yin Furen, along with Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen, was about to leave the residence for the Imperial Court of Judicial Review when they ran into Xuan **Jie'er**, who had been brought back by Hu Gang. They decided to take her along.

Xuan **Jie'er** had already heard about her **Xiao Jiu**'s situation and was looking serious, her eyes wide open, determined to uncover the truth behind it.

Soon they arrived at the Imperial Court of Judicial Review. Upon receiving the report, the warden came out to greet them. Seeing the large group of women, he immediately felt a headache coming on. After some persuasion, he allowed only one person to enter to deliver items and visit, with the condition that no sharp objects or forbidden items like poison were brought in.

Zhao Jiazhen and Xu Nian'an both suggested that Yin Furen go in.

Naturally, Yin Furen wanted to see her son. She took the bundle containing the clean clothes and walked a few steps, but then stopped.

She turned back, looked at Xu Nian'an and walked back, handing the bundle to her. "You go," she said. "When you see Huanxi, tell him not to be afraid." At this point, her voice faltered, and she dabbed at the corner of her eyes with a handkerchief. She continued, "Tell him that the family is all working on ways to get him out.”
