---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 137"
snippet: "Ning Shi trembled for a while, but suddenly, she stopped."
order: 137
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

In the Second Branch, Ning **Shi** paced anxiously in her room. Earlier, when she visited Jiaxiang House, the calmness on Yin Furen's face, like the eerie stillness before a storm, left her uneasy, as though something was about to happen. 

Based on her understanding of Yin Furen, if she didn’t have evidence to prove Zhao Huanxi's innocence, it would be impossible for her to remain so composed while Zhao Huanxi sat in prison under suspicion of murder. Given her love and care for Zhao Huanxi, her demeanour was simply too unusual.

That man surnamed Fu had just visited the Shuntian Prefecture. Could it be that the person **San Di**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="3rd younger brother"></sup> found had made some kind of mistake?

No, whoever else made a mistake, that person absolutely couldn’t. She must contact her third brother immediately. 

Ning **Shi** walked to a corner of the room, picked up a brush, and wrote two characters. She folded the paper and slipped it into an envelope. Leaving her room, she walked to her younger son Zhao Huanchun’s courtyard and called out, “Chun **Ge'er**?”

Zhao Huanchun came out of his room and asked, "Mom, what’s the matter?"  

Ning **Shi** walked to the doorway, handed him the letter, and said in a low voice, "Take this letter to your **San Jiujiu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="mother's 3rd brother"></sup> immediately. Make sure you deliver it to him personally. Because of the matter involving the First Branch‘s Xi **Ge'er**, your **Da Bomu** has sealed the front and back gates, not allowing anyone to enter or leave. Go to your **Da Bomu** and tell her that you promised your **Biao Mei** to deliver a *longevity thread* to her and only just remembered. Say that if you don’t go now, your **Biao Mei** will be upset. Go to your *Wai* grandparents’ house and return quickly."  
<div class="author-note">
Typically, a 长命缕 (longevity thread) is made of five-coloured threads, symbolising protection, health, and long life. It is often worn on the wrist or ankle during the Dragon Boat Festival and serves both as a charm for good fortune and a festive decoration.
</div>

Zhao Huanchun, puzzled, asked, "Why go through so much trouble? Can’t I just say I’m delivering a letter from Mom to **Jiujiu**?"

"No!" Ning **Shi** lost control of her emotions and raised her voice slightly, startling Zhao Huanchun.

Ning **Shi** saw her son’s stunned expression and tried to compose herself. She handed him the prepared longevity thread with a gentle tone, saying, “Do as Mom instructed and come back quickly.” 

“Oh,” Zhao Huanchun responded, tucking the letter and the longevity thread into his chest. Under Ning **Shi**’s watchful gaze, he left the Second Branch’s courtyard and headed to Jiaxiang House. 

Upon arriving at Jiaxiang House, he greeted Yin Furen with a bow and explained his purpose. Yin Furen, after a brief moment of thought, did not refuse. She said, “I wasn’t allowing anyone to go out, but since you’ve made an agreement with your **Biao Mei**, I’ll permit it this time. Just make sure to leave and return quickly, and be cautious on the road.”

Zhao Huanchun cupped his hands in thanks and said, “Thanking **Da Bomu** for understanding.”

After he left, Yin Furen immediately summoned Hu Gang and instructed him to send people to monitor the Ning Family. She ordered that if anyone from the Ning Family went to the Shuntian Prefecture prison, they were to be apprehended and brought back. She also sent someone to inform the magistrate of Shuntian Prefecture, explicitly stating that Wu Kui was the true murderer of the heir of Cheng Guogong and instructing that he be kept under strict and solitary watch.

Inside the room, Zhao Jiazhen listened to Yin Furen's methodical arrangements outside. She turned to Xu Nian’an and whispered, “Mother seems different from before.”

“After going through so much, people are bound to change. **Sanlang** has changed too,” Xu Nian’an remarked with a sigh. 

Zhao Jiazhen sighed, “I always wished he’d grow up quickly and become sensible. But now, seeing him forced to mature because of all this filth, I can’t help but feel heartache. People are so contradictory.”

"Isn't that just life?" Xu Nian’an said. "First, you endure the wind and rain, only then can you stand firm against them."
<br>

As night began to fall, **Guogong Yé** returned from the Central Military Commander’s Office. Upon hearing the news, Yin Furen wasted no time and headed to Dunyi Hall with Zhao Jiazhen and Xu Nian’an.

"I heard from Xiangzhong that you’ve found the real culprit? What happened?" **Guogong Yé**, still in his official robes, had a face marked with weariness that he couldn’t conceal.

Yin Furen handed him Wu Kui’s confession and said, "**Gongdiē**, please read the culprit’s statement first. After that, **Erxi** will explain the full story to *you*."

**Guogong Yé** took the confession and read it carefully under the lamplight, line by line.

The true culprit identified himself as Wu Kui, a native of Lintao. Five years ago, due to a famine in his hometown, he came to the capital with his widowed mother and younger sister to seek a livelihood. Three years ago, his widowed mother passed away, leaving only him and his sister to rely on each other.

Wu Kui worked as a guard and errand runner for the west-city branch of a dairy shop called Rulao Zhang. His fifteen-year-old sister worked there as a maidservant. Half a month ago, his sister was harassed by a young nobleman who came to the shop to eat dairy products. Unable to restrain himself, Wu Kui beat the man and fled with his sister.

That young nobleman gathered various friends and local thugs to relentlessly hunt down Wu Kui and his sister, to the point that he couldn’t even manage to escape the capital with her.

When the siblings were driven into a desperate corner, a steward from a wealthy family, someone Wu Kui often saw while working at the Rulao Zhang shop, found him. The steward promised that if Wu Kui killed a certain person and provided specific testimony during the court hearing, they would ensure his sister would have someone to rely on for the rest of her life, with no worries about food or clothing.

The person he was tasked to kill was a young nobleman who had been tied up in a secluded alley in the northern part of the city. Wu Kui strangled him with a hemp rope just the previous morning.

The order to assassinate the jade craftsman at Mo Yu’er was also given by the steward, with instructions to claim during the hearing that it was to silence a witness.

As for the one orchestrating all of this, Wu Kui was told to identify her as a Nanny surnamed Li from the Jing Guogong Residence, a fifty-something with triangular eyes<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="a common physiological phenomenon where the skin around the eyes become loose and droopy, often seen in middle-aged and elderly people due to aging"></sup> and a harsh demeanour.

Guogong Ye was utterly confused after reading this and asked Yin Furen, "So someone is framing the Fifth Branch? And who exactly is this wealthy family’s steward mentioned here?"

"We’ve already sent people to inquire at the Rulao Zhang shop based on Wu Kui’s description. If nothing unexpected happens, it should be the steward of the Count of Anqing Residence," Yin Furen replied.

**Guogong Yé** froze, frowning. "What did you say? The Count of Anqing Residence?"

The Count of Anqing Residence was, in fact, the maiden family of **Er Taitai**, Ning **Shi**.

Yin Furen bowed to **Guogong Yé** and said, “**Gongdiē**, at this point, **Erxi** can no longer keep this from *you*. The matter traces back to when Huanxi and Huanxu went to take their exams at Canglan Academy and encountered danger on the road. That day, after Huanxi returned and told me about the cart blocking the road, I felt something was off. After investigating, I found that it seemed to be connected to the Count of Anqing Residence. From then on, **Erxi** quietly assigned people to monitor the activities of both the Seconf Branch and the Count of Anqing Residence.

“This time, when Huanxi suddenly ran into trouble, I quickly questioned the people I had stationed for surveillance. From them, One discovered the movements of the Fifth Branch as well as those of Second Branch. However, lacking evidence, One couldn’t be certain. It wasn’t until Nian’an mentioned that the motive for the jade craftsman’s attack was unclear and highly suspicious that I decided to test this individual. That led to uncovering this confession.”

**Guogong Yé**'s gaze lingered on the confession in his hand, and he asked, “So, what exactly happened?”

“Making the jade pendants, kidnapping Zhu Zhifu, sending people to lure Huanxi into the northern alley of the city—these were all done by Fifth Branch. Killing Zhu Zhifu and the attack of the jade craftsma, these were the actions of Second Branch,” Yin Furen replied in a numb tone.

Rather than asking why Fifth and Second Branch carried out these actions, **Guogong Yé** instructed Xiangzhong, “Go fetch Ning **Shi**.”

**Er Taitai**, Ning **Shi** was preparing to have a meal with her youngest daughter, Chengke, and her two legitimate daughters-in-law while waiting for Zhao Huanchun’s return. Upon hearing that **Guogong Yé** had summoned her, her heart sank with unease.

She took advantage of the moment when she was returning to her room to tidy her appearance to collect her thoughts. Afterward, she went to the Dunyi Hall with her maid.

When she arrived at **Guogong Yé**'s study and saw that Yin Furen was also there, she took a deep breath and greeted **Guogong Yé**.

Without speaking further, **Guogong Yé** handed her Wu Kui’s confession and said, “You should take a look as well.”

Ning **Shi** took the paper and read it carefully, line by line. After finishing, she looked at **Guogong Yé** with a confused expression under the watchful eyes of Yin Furen and the others, asking, “What is this? Why do **Gongdiē** want me to see it?”

Yin Furen couldn’t help but admire Ning **Shi**’s ability to act so innocent. Even in such a situation, she could still maintain such composure. This level of self-control was truly rare. No wonder, after being around her for nearly twenty to thirty years, Yin Furen had never been able to see through the evil beneath her facade!

**Guogong Yé** looked at Ning **Shi** and said, “It seems you are completely unaware. This matter was initiated by your maiden family.”

Ning **Shi** was stunned, “My… my maiden family?” She lowered her head again to look at the confession in her hand. “So, **Gongdiē** means that the steward from the wealthy family mentioned here is from my maiden family? That’s impossible. Why would my maiden family do such a thing?”

“The reason your maiden family would frame someone from the Jing Guogong Residence, that may only be revealed in court. Do you truly have nothing to tell me?” **Guogong Yé** asked.

Ning **Shi** bowed her head and replied, “**Gongdiē**, please see clearly. **Erxi** truly have no knowledge of this.”

At this moment, Xiangzhong entered and reported, “**Guogong Yé**, the soldiers (that locked Zhu Zhifu; Fifth Branch's people) have returned, and they’ve also brought back the person who was controlling the soldiers. He’s a person from the Count of Anqing Residence.”

**Guogong Yé** glanced at Ning **Shi** and instructed Xiangzhong, “Lock them up properly.”

As soon as Xiangzhong left, he returned again and said, “**Da Taitai**, Hu Gang is looking for you.”

Yin Furen exchanged a brief nod with **Guogong Yé** before going out. Soon, she returned, leading two guards who were escorting a young servant.

The moment Ning **Shi** saw the servant, her expression subtly changed.

"**Gongdiē**, this afternoon, **Erxi** sent my Biao Nephew to the Shuntian Prefecture. To prevent any leaks, One had the front and back doors of the residence sealed. When my Biao Nephew returned, **Er Taitai** happened to be in my courtyard asking about the gate being closed. Not long after **Er Taitai** left, Chun **Ge’er** came to tell me he was going to his maternal home to deliver a longevity thread to his **Biao Mei**, so I allowed him to go. But as soon as he entered the Count of Anqing Residence, the Count Residence sent out this young servant straight to the Shuntian Prefecture prison. I had the people I arranged beforehand detain him," Yin Furen explained.

**Guogong Yé**’s face grew cold as he looked at the young servant, who was visibly flustered, and asked, "What is the purpose of going to the Shuntian Prefecture prison at this time?"

The young servant stubbornly raised his neck and said, "I’m from the Count of Anqing Residence, and you Zhao Family have no right to detain or interrogate me!"  

"Xiangzhong, take him away and make him confess," **Guogong Yé** ordered.

As Xiangzhong led the two guards and dragged the young servant out, the sounds of heart-wrenching screams soon echoed from outside the room.

Inside, the atmosphere was tense and silent. A layer of cold sweat slowly formed on Ning **Shi**'s forehead and back. She anxiously tried to think of a response, but before she could come up with a suitable plan, Xiangzhong entered.  

"**Gongdiē**, he has surrendered. It was Ning Family's Third Master who got Second Branch's message and was ordered to go to the Shuntian Prefecture prison to check if anything had changed with Wu Kui." 

**Guogong Yé**'s gaze shifted toward Ning **Shi**.

Under the unspoken pressure from his piercing gaze, Ning **Shi** couldn’t help but tremble slightly.

**Guogong Yé**’s voice was low and filled with disbelief as he asked Ning **Shi**, "Why? For all these years, the Second and Third Branch have been the most obedient and sensible in my eyes. Compared to Third Branch, your husband is the legitimate son, your son is more promising. What dissatisfaction could you possibly have? Why commit such a cruel act?"

Ning **Shi** trembled for a while, but suddenly, she stopped.

"Why?" she let out a bitter laugh, raising her head to glare at **Guogong Yé** with hatred in her eyes. "Why? You yourself said it, my Second Branch is the legitimate one, the most obedient and sensible. My husband and my son are the most successful. After all these years, has there ever been a moment where you thought of passing the title to the Second Branch?”

She pointed at Yin Furen and said, "In the First Branch, Zhao Mingkun is a useless piece of trash, and you, the father, know it best! As for the Fifth Branch, if **Lao Wu** were still here, the military power in Zhao Family’s hands would definitely belong to him. Even if the title wasn’t given to him, it wouldn’t be considered unfair. But **Lao Wu** is gone now, and Fifth Branch is left with nothing but some lowly, shameful people. You turn a blind eye, keeping them face for **Lao Wu**. Among the three legitimate sons, only our Second Branch has always been honest, diligent, and hardworking, yet we’ve never caught your eye, and all the good things never come our way! Why?"

"So, you planned to take down both First and Fifth Branch with this scheme?" **Guogong Yé** stared at his second daughter-in-law, whose facade of calm was cracking, revealing a frantic madness after her conspiracy was exposed.

"Otherwise? Am I supposed to wait for the day when you suddenly wake up and realize that our Second Branch is more qualified and capable than the First and Fifth Branch to inherit the title? **Da Taitai**, the dignified eldest daughter of the Marquis of Jinling, who was deceived into marrying your favored son who then neglected his legitimate wife, has endured how many years of humiliation and hardship? Have you ever helped her deal with Zhao Mingkun? Do you see how capable she is, handling the household affairs, working tirelessly for the Zhao Family, yet you repeatedly turn a blind eye while favoring the Fifth Branch that bullies her and her children? Do you have any conscience?"

Ning **Shi** sneered repeatedly, "After being your daughter-in-law for so many years, I've seen through you. Why do you always favor Fifth Branch? Because deep down, you're no different from them-selfish, ruthless, and narrow-minded! Your eyes only see what you want to see, and as for others, no matter how well they do or how much they suffer, you ignore it! But unfortunately, while man acts, heaven watches. You’ve received your due retribution. **Lao Wu**, whom you valued most, is dead, and your legitimate eldest son is completely ruined. You cling to the title, and now yout precious grandson whome you put expectations the most are someone with lofty ambitions, blinded by greed. I’ll just watch as the magnificent and prosperous Zhao Family crumbles from your hands! And when you reach the underworld, what face will you have to meet your ancestors? Hahahahahaha!”

Yin silently watched as Ning **Shi** was dragged away, her mind filled with mixed emotions. She felt a strange sense of relief seeing Ning **Shi**’s downfall but also a sense of unease at the personal animosity and pain that had been exposed.

**Guogong Yé** maintained his impassive expression, simply ordering, "Take her away, lock her up."

As Ning **Shi** was led out, she suddenly paused when passing by Yin Furen. She looked at her, as if to say something, but hesitated multiple times. Finally, she spoke, her voice dripping with venom, "The peace and prosperity of the Zhao Family today, all thanks to you being a good person. The entire household owes you, especially Jing Guogong the head of the household!"

Yin Furen remained silent, her eyes cold.

After Ning **Shi** was escorted out, the Yin Furen respectfully bowed to **Guogong Yé**, saying, "**Gongdiē**, if there is nothing further, we will take our leave.”

**Guogong Yé** nodded, his voice firm, "Tomorrow morning, go to the Imperial Court of Judicial Review to bring Huanxi back."

"Understood," Yin Furen replied, motioning for Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen to follow her as they left the study.

**Guogong Yé** sat quietly behind his desk for a moment before standing and heading to the window to get some fresh air. However, just as he approached the window, he felt a wave of dizziness, his vision darkened, and he collapsed to the floor.

Once Xiangzhong had dealt with Ning **Shi**'s situation, he returned to the study and was shocked to find **Guogong Yé** on the ground. His expression shifted to one of panic as he immediately sent someone to inform Yin Furen while also sending for a doctor.

Before the doctor arrived, officials from the Imperial Court of Judicial Review arrived with grave news: Zhao Huanxi had been poisoned.

Hearing this news, Yin Furen nearly fainted as well.

In a moment of indecision, Yin Furen was torn. **Guogong Yé** could not be left unattended; if anything happened to him and no will was left behind, the title would likely go to that good-for-nothing Zhao Mingkun. But as for Huanxi...

"Mom, don't worry. I'll go with **San Jie** to see Huanxi. *You* stay and take care of **Zufu**," Xu Nian'an said, her face pale as she tried to comfort Yin Furen.

Seeing her daughter's pale complexion, Yin Furen knew that Xu Nian'an just putting on a brave front. She quickly urged, "Go, quickly!"

Without further hesitation, Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen, accompanied by their maids and servants, took a carriage and rushed toward the Imperial Court of Judicial Review.
