---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 139"
snippet: "Establishing Zhao Huanxi as Guogong Yé's shisun."
order: 139
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The second day after Wu Kui confessed, the third legitimate son of the Count of Anqing Residence, Ning Yibin, along with the steward of his branch, was taken away by the Shuntian Prefecture.

Flustered and anxious, the Count of Anqing hurried to find Jing Guogong.

In the Dunyi Hall, the two closed the door to speak privately.

“Did you really have no prior knowledge of this matter?” **Guogong Yé** asked him.

The Count of Anqing, distressed, replied, “If I had known, how could I have let him commit such an outrageous and immoral act? Wouldn’t that harm both others and myself? Zhao **Xiong**, for the sake of our familial ties, please, I beg you to help.”

**Guogong Yé** pondered for a moment before he said:  “This mess stemmed from my lack of strict oversight in managing my household. However, if it weren’t for the Ning family’s interference, there wouldn’t have been a death. Ning **Sanlang** hired an assassin to kill, and if the victim had been an ordinary commoner, perhaps some backdoor dealings and favors might have spared him from execution. But he killed the heir of Cheng Guogong. His life, I fear, cannot be saved. As for Ning **Shi**, with her treachery and viciousness, there is no way my residence can afford to keep her any longer.”

Despair gradually appeared on the Count of Anqing’s face.

Although Cheng Guogong Residence eemed weak compared to Jing Guogong Residence, when it came to dealing with the Count of Anqing Residence, they could do as they pleased. If the Jing Guogong Residence refused to help, after this case concluded, there would be Consort Zhen in the Palace whispering in the Emperor’s ear and Cheng Guogong outside the Palace seeking revenge. He's afraid that the Count of Anqing Residence would likely face the loss of their title and confiscation of their property.

"Zhao **Xiong**, I know it’s my son and daughter’s recklessness that caused this terrible mistake, nearly harming your legitimate grandson. By rights, I have no face to ask for your help. But as you said, this matter started in your Jing Guogong  Residence. If word gets out, it could damage your reputation as well. How about this, I’ll have that unfilial son of mine take full responsibility for all the crimes, ensuring it doesn’t implicate your residence in the slightest. All I ask is that, when the Cheng Guogong Residence seeks revenge on mine, you lend me a helping hand,” said the Count of Anqing.

“And Ning **Shi**…”

The Count of Anqing, now utterly furious with his heartless and treacherous daughter for bringing disaster upon the family, gritted his teeth and said without hesitation, “If Ning **Shi** is sent back home in disgrace, none of the women in our Ning Family will be able to hold their heads up. Zhao **Xiong**, please… let her die of an illness instead.”

A moment later, the Count of Anqing left, his face pale and filled with worry. 

**Guogong Yé** stood at the doorway, watching the Count’s slightly aged and desolate figure disappear beyond the courtyard gate. He stood there for a long time.

“**Guogong Yé**, Imperial Physician Zhang advised *you* to rest more,” Xiangzhong gently reminded him.

“Prepare the ink for me,” **Guogong Yè** said as he returned to his desk. Once the ink was ready, he wrote a memorial requesting the official establishment of Zhao Huanxi as his heir grandson.
<div class="author-note">
The usual term for an heir is 世子 (shìzǐ), which refers to the son designated to inherit the family title or position. However, in this case, since the heir is the grandson rather than the son, the term 世孙 (shìsūn) is used instead. 子 (zǐ) means "child" or "son," while 孙 (sūn) means "grandchild." Therefore, 世孙 specifically refers to a designated heir from the grandchild generation.
But in some contexts, the term 世孙 (Shisun) is used for the eldest legitimate son of a 世子 (shìzǐ). When the 世子 (Shizi) inherits the title, his son (the Shisun 世孙) will in turn become the next Shizi (世子).
</div>

After the ink dried, he penned another memorial to formally request to step down due to ill health. He planned to submit it once the memorial establishing Zhao Huanxi as the Shisun was approved.

No matter how strong-willed he was, he couldn’t deny that his health had been deteriorating over the past year or two. The old injuries from his younger days flared up more painfully and frequently, especially on rainy days, and were becoming increasingly unbearable.

With each passing year, one inevitably feels their age and must accept the reality of growing old.

But no matter what, he had to hold on until Huanxi was properly raised and prepared.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the following days, the entire capital was focused on the case of Count of Anqing's third legitimate son hiring assassins to murder the heir of Cheng Guogong. True to his word, the Count of Anqing ensured that Third Master Ning took full responsibility for all the crimes, from the abduction to the murder, claiming sole guilt. As for Zhao Huanxi, his involvement was explained as an accidental and coincidental intrusion.

Naturally, the people of Cheng Guogong Residence did not believe such an obviously flawed explanation. However, since Third Master Ning had already confessed from hiring assassins to commit murder, there was no justification for further interrogations under torture.

At this moment, Jing Guogong submitted a memorial requesting that his grandson, Zhao Huanxi, be officially established as the heir grandson. Since his sons were still alive, it was unprecedented to bypass the son and directly establish a grandson as the heir.

Cheng Guogong quickly rallied the court officials he could align with to submit memorials opposing the request and sent a message to Consort Zhen, asking her to do her part as well.

Consort Zhen replied, stating that the vile woman Liu Fuyi had now gained dominance in the Imperial Hqrem and she is clearly aligned with Jing Guogong Residence. If she were to interfere in this matter, she feared it would only lead to further targeting and suppression by her.

Cheng Guogong sent a secret message back to reassure her, saying there was no need to worry, that wretched Liu woman would not be able to remain in power for much longer.

The memorial requesting the establishment of Zhao Huanxi as heir grandson was ultimately suppressed.

A few days later, after the morning court session, **Guogong Yé** requested an audience with the Emperor.

The Emperor had already refused him several times, but thinking it wouldn’t be appropriate to refuse indefinitely, he finally agreed.

**Guogong Yé** entered the imperial study and paid his respects to the Emperor. Being a military man, he had no talent for the roundabout tactics of scholars, so he spoke directly, straightly raising the matter of appointing an heir grandson.

The Emperor hesitated and said, “No matter if you wish to establish the eldest legitimate son or the most capable one, there are precedents and rules for that. But to bypass the eldest legitimate son while he is still alive and establish the eldest legitimate grandson instead, there is no precedent for this. Filial piety is the foundation of all virtues. With the father alive, the son should inherit the title. This title was passed down from our ancestors, if it skips the father and goes directly to the grandson, wouldn’t that be unfilial?”

"Your Majesty, **Chen**‘s eldest legitimate son is incompetent and unfit to carry the responsibilities of the title. If the title were passed to him, the Zhao Family's future would be in jeopardy. If there were any other way, **Chen** would not have resorted to such a measure. One humbly asks for Your Majesty's understanding," **Guogong Yé** said as he cupped his hands in respect.

"It’s not that **Zhen** is unwilling to make accommodations, but this would truly violate the rites and laws," the Emperor replied. "**Zhen** has also heard about your eldest legitimate son. He is not a person of great wrongdoing-he’s not someone who kills or commits heinous act-but he has been somewhat muddled in matters within the inner court. You can simply admonish him to correct his ways. As for the grandson you wish to establish, he is only seventeen, young and inexperienced. To say that he is more capable than his father… this is not convincing.”

**Guogong Yé** fell silent.

Seeing his worn and haggard appearance, the Emperor couldn’t help but advise, “Zhao **Qing**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="卿 is an Emperor's form of address for a minister; beloved minister."></sup>, what is most important right now is for you to take care of your health. Both the Zhao Family and I cannot do without you. As for the matter of establishing an heir grandson, let it rest for now. Take some time to reconsider.”

**Guogong Yé** understood the Emperor’s underlying meaning, that the situation in Liaodong was tense, and Li Ying, a former subordinate of his, was involved. If anything were to happen, the Emperor might still need him to go to Liaodong to stabilize the situation.

Since the Emperor would still rely on him in the future, there would be another chance for the request to establish the heir grandson to be approved. There was no need to press the Emperor on this matter right away.

With this understanding, **Guogong Yé** didn’t say any more. He rose, bowed in respect, and took his leave.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Half a month later, Zhao Mingzeng, the legitimate second son of Jing Guogong, hurried back home, exhausted from his travels. That evening, when father and son met, **Guogong Yé** told him about Ning **Shi**‘s actions and the attitude of the Count of Anqing Residence towards the situation. Zhao Mingzeng was completely stunned.

Seeing his reaction, **Guogong Yé** understood that Zhao Mingzeng was unaware of Ning **Shi**'s behavior. He said, "You don't have to see Ning **Shi**, it's better not to cause more heartbreak. Just go back and comfort the children."

Zhao Mingzeng agreed and left in a daze.
<br>

The next day, in the Shenhui Courtyard, Zhao Huanxi was in his study, painting a summer folding screen for Xu Nian'an.

He was naturally gifted in painting, and now with the guidance of a renowned master and his own high level of comprehension, his progress was astonishing, truly advancing by leaps and bounds.

Xu Nian'an was very pleased. Every time she watched him paint, it felt as though she was watching him draw silver notes.

Zhao Huanxi held a brush in his mouth and another in his hand, focusing on his work. However, through the delicate and translucent gauze of the folding screen, he could see Xu Nian'an across the room, helping him organize the books on the bookshelf. Her figure was graceful and elegant, and her movements were smooth and refined. Gradually, his concentration began to slip.

Both of them had things to do at the moment, and if he suddenly went to bother her, she would definitely scold him.

Zhao Huanxi thought for a moment and came up with a plan.

He took the brush from his mouth and said, "Dong **Jiejie**, this folding screen is broken. Look, there's a hole here."

Xu Nian'an turned around to see that he had already painted most of it, feeling a bit regretful. She set down the book she was holding and walked over, saying, "No way. I had the screen specially made. How could there be a hole? Where is it?"

Zhao Huanxi pointed to a spot on the screen, where she would need to tilt her head to see, and said, "It's right here."

Xu Nian'an tilted her head back, looking around in confusion. "I don't see anything.”

"Can't you see it over there? It's right here, there's clearly a hole the size of a soybean. Take a closer look," Zhao Huanxi said with a serious expression, pointing at the spot.

The area he pointed to was high up, and Xu Nian'an had to stretch on tiptoe, leaning closer and closer, but still couldn't see any hole the size of a soybean.

Just as she was about to question him, Zhao Huanxi's face suddenly appeared through the gauze screen, and with precision, he kissed her lips.

Having succeeded in his trick, Zhao Huanxi grinned smugly.

Xu Nian'an only then reacted, realizing her lipstick had left a mark on the screen. She was furious and immediately lifted her skirt, ready to chase after Zhao Huanxi.

Zhao Huanxi tossed his brush aside, laughing and running around the gauze screen. After running around twice, he stopped behind it, and when Xu Nian'an caught up, he grabbed her and held her in his arms, flashing a playful smile as he teased, "Dong **Jiejie**, want a kiss?"

Xu Nian'an, furious, punched him. "You've ruined the screen, and now you're talking about kisses? I think you need a beating."

"Ruined it? How?"

"My lipstick mark is on it! Can't you see it?"

"I see it. But I have a way to fix it. Can we have a kiss? It's been so long since we did, so long that I can hardly tell you apart from Wenlin anymore since we're all sharing a bed and doing nothing." Zhao Huanxi said with a hint of longing.

Xu Nian'an couldn't help but laugh at his tone, which sounded like a sulking wife. She glanced through the screen toward the door of the study, saw that no one was around, and whispered, "You can only kiss once."

"En!" Zhao Huanxi was so happy he felt like wagging his tail. As long as he could kiss her, he didn't mind how many times.

He leaned in, lowering his head, and Xu Nian'an tilted her face upward in response. Just as their lips were about to touch, Xiaowei's voice suddenly came from outside the door. "**San Nainai**, Chen **Xiansheng** from Canglan Academy and Xu **Gongzi** are here. **Taitai** asked *you* to come over."

Zhao Huanxi: "…..”

Xu Nian'an couldn't help but laugh at the situation.

Zhao Huanxi, annoyed, pulled her waist and leaned in, determined to steal a kiss before letting her go.

Xu Nian'an raised a finger to his lips, her eyes bright as the moon. "Stop fooling around. Since the teacher from the academy is here, you should go and greet him. We don't even know why he's come."

Zhao Huanxi reluctantly gave in.

After tidying up, the two of them went to Jiaxiang House, where Master Yanmei and Xu Moxiu were speaking with Yin Furen in the main hall. 

Zhao Huanxi greeted Master Yanmei and sat down beside Xu Moxiu.

Master Yanmei looked at him with a smile and said, "Huanxi, I didn't expect that while I was away, you went to the Imperial Court of Judicial Review prison for some 'study’. What insights have you gained?"

Zhao Huanxi: "..…"

Xu Moxiu suppressed a laugh.

Zhao Huanxi scratched his head and said, "As Liu Xiang of the Han Dynasty once said, 'Books are like medicine; if read well, they can cure ignorance'. When I was in the Imperial Court of Judicial Review prison, there was nothing to do, and it was quite lonely. I could only read books, and I found myself enjoying reading more than usual and understanding things more deeply. It seems that reading not only cures ignorance, but it also provides a mental refuge."

Master Yanmei laughed heartily and stroked his beard. "Exactly, exactly! The biggest reason why you young people can't concentrate on your studies is that your lives are too full of distractions. If I locked all of you in a prison, gave you only books and nothing else, after three to five years, I wouldn't be surprised if everyone was on the honor roll<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="list of the scholars who passed the Imperial Examination"></sup>.”

Everyone laughed, and then Yin Furen turned to Xu Nian'an and said, "Yanmei **Xiansheng** has come to act as a matchmaker for Moxiu. Knowing that the marriage matters in the family are under your supervision, he specifically came to our residence."

"Matchmaking for Moxiu?" Xu Nian'an was taken by surprise. She hadn't expected Master Yanmei to visit for such a reason, and she was momentarily stunned.

Master Yanmei explained, "During my travels along the Zhuo River, I happened to run into an old friend of mine, Lu Deyue. I visited his home, and during our conversation, I mentioned my students. To my surprise, he was very interested in Moxiu. He mentioned that he had a daughter, fourteen years old, and if you are willing, he would like to form a marriage alliance with the Xu Family."

Xu Nian'an was stunned. "Zhuo River, the surname Lu... Could it be that he’s from the Lu Family of Fanyang?”

<div class="author-note">
This Lú (卢) family has different character from the Lu Feng's Lù (陆) family.
<br><br>
范阳卢家 (Fànyáng Lú jiā): The Lu family of Fanyang. This refers to one of the most prestigious and historically significant aristocratic clans in ancient China.
</div>

