---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 148"
snippet: "Zhao Huanchao volunteers to go on the expedition in Jing Guogong's Stead."
order: 148
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

When **Guogong Yé** collapsed, the entire residence was thrown into chaos.

The imperial physician was quickly summoned, and it was the same Physician Zhang from last time.

Upon seeing **Guogong Yé**’s complexion, Physician Zhang asked no questions, took out his needle pouch, and began acupuncture on **Guogong Yé**’s head before starting to check his pulse.

The room was filled with dozens of pairs of eyes, all staring at him without blinking.

After diagnosing the pulse, Physician Zhang turned to the crowd and said, "Everyone, please step outside. It’s hard for the patient to breathe with so many people crowded in here."

Yin Furen and **Er**, **San**, and **Si Laoyé**, who had rushed back upon hearing the news, all retreated to the outer room.

Physician Zhang sighed and said, "I mentioned before that **Lao Guogong** suffers from wind illness and should avoid physical exertion. This time, the attack is severe. Please, everyone, prepare yourselves."

Hearing this, everyone was shocked into silence.

"Does Zhang **Yuyi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="御医-imperial or court physician"></sup> mean that my father is in danger of losing his life this time?" Zhao Mingzeng asked anxiously.

Physician Zhang replied, "**Lao Guogong** is very old and has suffered from long years of battles, which have weakened his constitution. Whether he can survive this time depends entirely on fate."

Upon hearing this, **Si Taitai** and others immediately broke into tears.

"Zhang **Yuyi**, please do *your* best to save Father’s life! We beg *you*!" Zhao Mingzeng and his two brothers bowed deeply to Physician Zhang.

With the three brothers staying by **Guogong Yé**’s side, Yin Furen, along with the other **Taitai**s, took the younger generation and stepped outside.

"**Da Sao**, what... what should we do now?" After leaving the Dunyi Hall, **Si Taitai** wiped her tears while asking Yin Furen in a state of helplessness.

Although **Guogong Yé** was strict, he was still the head of the family. If he were to pass, the family would have to be divided. Being separated from the residence’s treasury, one must bear the profit and loss independently, which was a terrifying prospect for **Si Taitai**.
<div class="author-note">
分家 - "Separation of family," pinyin: fēn jiā, refers to dividing one family into several. A complete family breaks up, and several new families are established and born. The primary purpose of "separation of family" is to divide property. In terms of property, it mainly involves dividing fixed assets and funds, which are the savings and private property of the parents.
</div>

"**Gongdiē** is blessed with good fortune, he’ll be fine," Yin Furen said with a stern face.

The womenfolk went their separate ways to return to their respective courtyards. When Yin Furen reached the entrance of Jiaxiang House, she suddenly tripped on the steps. Fortunately, Xuan **Jie'er**, who was following closely behind, was quick to catch her.

"**Wai Zumu**, are *you* alright?"

Yin Furen turned her head to look at Xuan **Jie’er**, then at Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen, who were following behind. It seemed as though she only truly came back to her senses at that moment. She asked, "Where is Huanxi?"

"**Xiao Jiu** stayed at Dunyi Hall to take care of **Zufu**," Xuan **Jie’er** replied.

Yin Furen nodded and murmured, "Yes, he should have stayed behind. What time is it? It should be time to prepare lunch..."

Xu Nian'an and Zhao Jiazhen both had red eyes. They watched Yin Furen, who was talking to herself while walking towards Jiaxiang House, knowing that the blow she had received this time was not small.

"**Zufu** will get better. We also need to pull ourselves together," Xu Nian'an said to Zhao Jiazhen.

Zhao Jiazhen dabbed at the tear stains at the corner of her eyes with a handkerchief and nodded.

<br>

Upon receiving the news that **Guogong Yé** had suddenly fallen ill, the Emperor sent Hong Feng, one of his trusted aides, to personally accompany the Chief of Imperial Physician to visit and treat him.

After returning to the Palace, Hong Feng reported to the Emperor: "Both **Taiyi Ling**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="太医令-Chief of Imperial Physician"></sup> and Zhang **Yuyi** stated that Jing Guogong’s current bout of wind illness is extremely severe. It would be a blessing if his life could be spared, returning to the battlefield is absolutely impossible."

The Emperor, troubled, said, "How could it come to this?"

Hong Feng replied, "Jing Guogong is advanced in years, such things are inevitable."

"Enough, **Zhen** understands," said the Emperor.
<br>

The next day, during the morning court session.

As the court discussions were nearing their end, Cheng Guogong stepped forward and said, "Your Majesty, One has heard that Jing Guogong has fallen ill. Might this affect his planned journey to Liaodong?”

The Emperor said, "**Zhen** has already sent someone to visit Jing Guogong. His illness is severe, and he is unable to make the journey."

"But the obstinate and fierce Gudesiqin specifically demanded that someone from the Zhao Family face him in battle. If the Zhao Family cowers and refuses, One fears the enemy, in their rage, might commit further atrocities like city massacres. Since Jing Guogong is too ill to fight, Chen proposes that his titled **Shisun**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="heir grandson"></sup>, Zhao Huanxi, go in his stead," Cheng Guogong said.

"Your Majesty, **Chen** believes this is inadvisable," Vice Minister Lu immediately stepped forward as Cheng Guogong finished speaking. "Jing Guogong's eldest legitimate grandson is only seventeen years old and has not been trained in martial arts. How could he possibly replace Jing Guogong on the battlefield?”

"Lu **Shilang**, I am aware that Zhao Huanxi is your son's younger brother-in-law, so it is understandable for you to defend him. However, the matter we are discussing concerns the safety of the state. How can you let personal feelings cloud your judgment and oppose the proposal, ignoring the bigger picture? This is hardly in line with the duty owed by one who enjoys the Emperor's favor and serves loyally!" Cheng Guogong said, squinting at Minister Lu.

Vice Minister Lu bowed and addressed the Emperor, "Your Majesty, in military engagements, how troops are deployed and who is assigned is critical to the outcome of the battle. It is unreasonable to send someone simply because the enemy has named them. Previously, Jing Guogong volunteered because he is a seasoned general who wished to shoulder the burden for Your Majesty, and he was confident in his ability to win the battle. His sudden illness is beyond human control. Even if another member of the Zhao Family must replace Jing Guogong, it should not be Zhao Huanxi, a frail youth not yet twenty. Sending him to the battlefield is no different from sending him to his death.”

Cheng Guogong said, "Lu **Shilang** words are misguided. Given Jing Guogong's prestige among the Liaodong border troops, who besides his designated **Shisun** could take his place? Who else could command the troops' respect? Though Zhao Huanxi is young, he is the titled **Shisun** personally recommended by Jing Guogong to His Majesty. With Jing Guogong incapacitated, if his heir does not step forward to take on this responsibility, who will? Moreover, saying that sending him to the battlefield is sending him to his death is an exaggeration. I distinctly recall that last summer, he took on six opponents in the rain and defeated them all. His skills are impressive."

Vice Minister Lu glanced at Cheng Guogong and said, "Since Zhu **Daren** mentioned last summer, one cannot help but suspect that Zhu **Daren**‘s words, though cloaked in concern for the country and the people, might be driven by a personal grudge.”

"You’re talking nonsense!"

Vice Minister Lu turned to the Emperor and said, "Your Majesty, Jing Guogong has spent his entire life serving the country and the people, fighting tirelessly for the peace of our lands. Now, in his twilight years, he is gravely ill, likely due to the many injuries and overexertion he endured in his youth. Zhao Huanxi is the heir he personally requested Your Majesty to appoint, the only successor he deemed satisfactory. One implores Your Majesty, in recognition of Jing Guogong's lifelong dedication and sacrifice for the stability of our dynasty, to ensure his lineage does not end with him. As for whether someone should replace Jing Guogong in battle and who that should be, urging Your Majesty to deliberate carefully."

"Your Majesty—"

Cheng Guogong attempted to speak again, but the Emperor raised his hand and said, "Enough. Stop arguing. Let me think this matter over carefully. Court is dismissed.”

<br>

After **Guogong Yé** fell ill, Zhao Huanxi stayed in **Guogong Yé**’s bedchamber almost constantly, only leaving to wash up and change clothes. Zhao Huanxu did the same.

After two days and nights of vigilant care, Imperial Physician Zhang finally relented, saying that **Guogong Yé**’s pulse was gradually stabilizing and that his life was no longer in danger. However, when he would wake up remained uncertain.

Imperial Physician Zhang returned to the palace to report to the Emperor, and Xiangzhong went to prepare **Guogong Yé**’s medicine, leaving only Zhao Huanxi and Zhao Huanxu in the room.

“Zhao Huanxi, do you hate me?” After a moment of silence, Zhao Huanxu suddenly asked.

Zhao Huanxi, gazing at the frail and silent figure of **Guogong Yé** on the bed, replied, “No, I don’t.”

"If anyone else said this, I definitely wouldn't believe it, but since it's you saying it, I do," Zhao Huanxu said with a self-deprecating smile. "**Zufu** was right, the teachers at Canglan Academy are very good at reading people. I, indeed, am not as capable as you."

Zhao Huanxi turned his face to look at him and asked, "Why are you saying this all of a sudden?"

"After **Zufu** wakes up, I plan to *travel and study*," Zhao Huanxu replied.
<div class="author-note">
"游学" refers to traveling to different places to study, often under the guidance of various teachers or scholars.
</div>

"Travel and study? You’re not going to take the imperial exam next year?" Zhao Huanxi asked.

Zhao Huanxu shook his head. "My temperament is unsettled, and my experience is still limited. Even if I were to succeed in the exam next year, entering the officialdom at this point wouldn't necessarily be a blessing for me."

"It's good that you can think this way," Zhao Huanxi said, turning back to look at **Guogong Yé**.

At this moment, Jinyin’s soft voice came from outside, calling, "**San Yé**, **San Yé**."

Zhao Huanxi stepped out of the bedroom, and Jinyin told him, "**San Yé**, Lu **Gongzi** has arrived. **Taitai** asks *you* to come back.”

Zhao Huanxi arrived at Jiaxiang House and indeed saw Lu Feng there. The two exchanged pleasantries, and Yin Furen, with a worried expression, said to him, "Huanxi, you must feign illness."

"Why?" The sudden statement left Zhao Huanxi momentarily confused.

Lu Feng explained, "Now that **Guogong Yé** is ill, Cheng Guogong wants to use you, as the heir grandson **Guogong Yé** personally assigned, to replace him in battle. He brought this up in the court today, and my father argued against it, but the Emperor did not agree. However, if he has Zhen **Fei** whispering in the Emperor's ear, it will be beyond what my father as a court official, can stop. The only way now is for you to feign illness and avoid this storm for the time being.”

"Lu **Gongzi** is right. These days, you've been so focused on taking care of your grandfather, barely sleeping or eating, so it would be quite natural for you to fall ill," Yin Furen said.

Zhao Huanxi lowered his eyes and remained silent.

Seeing his expression, Yin Furen quickly added, "What's the matter? Do you really want to replace your **Zufu** and go to battle?"

Zhao Huanxi raised his eyes and looked at both Yin Furen and Lu Feng, saying, "Whether I'm capable of handling it is one thing, but if I feign illness to avoid it, that would be cowardice and fear of death. If I do that, how will I face **Zufu** when he wakes up?"

"But last time at the academy, you yourself said that you're not ready for the battlefield yet," Lu Feng said, his brow furrowed slightly.

"**Zufu** wasn't prepared either, but he had no choice but to go, which is why we're in this situation today. If I also have to go, how can I feign illness and avoid it just because I'm not ready?" Zhao Huanxi said.

Lu Feng was rendered speechless by his words.

Yin Furen opened her mouth, but seeing Lu Feng present, she refrained from speaking.

At that moment, Qianhe suddenly entered and reported, "**Taitai**, Chao **Da Yé** (Zhao Huanchao) has returned and is now at Dunyi Hall, to visit **Guogong Yé**."

Yin Furen immediately stood up in anger, wanting to curse, but since her future son-in-law was present, she couldn’t bring herself to do so. Instead, she said, "Quickly send someone to keep an eye on him.”

Seeing that Zhao Huanxi had made up his mind, Lu Feng did not insist on persuading him further. **Guogong Yé** was still in a coma, so Lu Feng refrained from disturbing him. He simply said that once **Guogong Yé** woke up, he would come with Vice Minister Lu to visit.

After sending Lu Feng off, Yin Furen wanted to have a serious talk with Zhao Huanxi about feigning illness, but as soon as she turned around, he had already gone to Dunyi Hall again. Yin Furen thought for a moment and realized that she couldn’t handle this matter on her own, so she quickly ordered someone to fetch Xu Nian'an, who was busy arranging to move household items from Yifang Garden back to Shenhui Courtyard.

"Cheng Guogong suggested to the Emperor that **Sanlang** replace **Guogong Yé** in battle?" Xu Nian'an, upon hearing this news, was also taken aback.

"Yes. Huanxi is only seventeen years old, and what Cheng Guogong is doing is obvious, it's just a personal vendetta disguised as a military matter. But Huanxi is a fool, for the sake of his pride and not wanting to disappoint his grandfather, he's willing to risk his life. Nian'an, you must talk some sense into him and make sure he doesn't do something foolish," Yin Furen urged, deeply concerned.

Xu Nian'an nodded absentmindedly.

<br>

The summer afternoon stretched on. After Emperor and Liu Fuyi had finished their lunch, the Emperor was about to take a short nap when Hong Feng stood outside the Palace and reported, "Your Majesty, the grandson of Jing Guogong, Zhao Huanchao, is kneeling outside Guanghua Gate, submitting a petition to volunteer to replace his grandfather and go to battle."

The Emperor glanced at Liu Fuyi, who had already reclined on the concubine couch, her brows slightly furrowed, looking somewhat impatient. He then stood up and walked to the palace door. Taking the petition that Hong Feng presented, he read it aloud to himself, muttering, "Zhao Huanchao, once served as an assistant at the Central Army Commander's Office, and resigned from his post to care for his father's illness?”

Hong Feng bent at the waist and said, "Since he dares to write such a petition, it must be true."

The Emperor replied, "Well, that can be seen as filial and promising. I have been troubled about who to send in place of Jing Guogong for the campaign, and since he has volunteered, that is very good. Pass on my decree to grant his request. After he is appointed tomorrow, he should come to the palace to express his gratitude.”
<div class="author-note">
Imperial Gratitude (谢恩): After being granted a position or a favor, an official was required to personally enter the palace to kowtow and thank the Emperor. This was a formal ritual of loyalty.
</div>
