---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 154"
snippet: "Zhao Mingkun Returns Home."
order: 154
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Li Ying, the garrison commander of Liaodong, was born in Tieling, Liaodong. He came from a poor family and joined the army at the age of sixteen, and had bravery and exceptional skill. At twenty, due to his outstanding military achievements, he gained the favor of Zhao Kaishuo, the then-garrison commander of Liaodong, and was promoted to a deputy general. For over twenty years, he remained by Zhao Kaishuo's side until Zhao Kaishuo, plagued by recurring injuries, stepped down from his position and returned to the capital to recover.

Initially, upon hearing that the favoured heir grandson of the Old General<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="老将军 - Lao Jiangjun; a term of respect and familiarity towards his former superior"></sup> was arriving, Li Ying held some expectations. However, upon seeing Zhao Huanxi, with his delicate skin and refined features, Li Ying couldn’t help but feel greatly disappointed. Especially when Zhao Huanxi stood alongside General Lü Chunkai. One was tall, robust, and brimming with the vigor of an eagle, while the other was youthful and inexperienced, frail like a chick. Li Ying couldn’t help but suspect that if it came to a fight, Lü Chunkai could kill him with a single punch.

Was this really the Old General's most valued heir, the only person in the Zhao Family deemed fit to replace him in Liaodong? No wonder the Emperor had bestowed upon him the title of General Yunhui, a rank devoid of real power-clearly, someone unfit for the battlefield.

“Li **Jiangjun**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="general"></sup>, **Mo Jiang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="末将 (mò jiàng) is a humble self-reference used by military officers when addressing their superiors. It literally means 'your lowly general' or 'this humble general subordinate'."></sup> have fulfilled the Emperor's order to escort General Yunhui to you. Now that the task is complete, **Mo Jiang** shall return to the capital to report,” Lü Chunkai said, clasping his hands in salute to Li Ying.

Li Ying replied, “Lü **Jiangjun** has traveled a long and arduous journey. Why not rest for a day before departing?”

Lü Chunkai responded, “With the Emperor's orders in mind, One dares not delay. Farewell.”

Li Ying instructed one of his adjutants to see Lü Chunkai out of the camp. Turning to Zhao Huanxi, who was left behind and looking at him expectantly, Li Ying was momentarily at a loss for words. Finally, he said, “Hand me the official appointment document and the fish tally."

Zhao Huanxi presented the two items. After personally verifying them, Li Ying looked up and said, “There are no battles at the moment. Familiarize yourself with the environment here first.” With that, he called out loudly toward the tent entrance, “Ma Laoliu!”
<div class="author-note">
马老六- LaoLiu here literally means the old six, with Ma being his surname. Ma Laoliu may be his nickname in the military.
</div>

A spirited young man of medium build stepped into the tent and saluted, asking, “**Jiangjun** have any order?”

Li Ying pointed at Zhao Huanxi and said, “From today onward, you are responsible for taking care of this Yunhui **Jiangjun** who has come from the capital.” Then, turning to Zhao Huanxi, he added, “He is called Ma Laoliu. He’s the camp’s courier<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="急脚子- couriers or runners"></sup>. You can instruct him to handle anything you need.”

“Thank you, Li **Jiangjun**,” Zhao Huanxi replied. Being new to the area and unfamiliar with everything, he naturally followed Li Ying’s arrangements.

Ma Laoliu eagerly escorted Zhao Huanxi out of the main tent. They hadn’t gone far when Zhao Huanxi heard a long sigh from behind him, coming from within the tent. Li Ying lamented, “What a pity that Zhao **Lao Jiangjun**, a hero of his time, has no capable successor!”

Ma Laoliu looked slightly awkward and quickly pointed to two large bundles placed on the ground in front of the tent. He asked Zhao Huanxi, “**Jiangjun**, are these *your* belongings?”

Zhao Huanxi nodded. “That's right.”

Ma Laoliu hurried over, grabbed one bundle in each hand, and gestured to the right as he walked. “This way, **Jiangjun**, please.”

Zhao Huanxi followed him to a tent not far from the main tent. Upon entering, he saw a simple setup: a wooden bed, a basin stand, and a dining table.

Ma Laoliu placed the bundles on the bed and turned back to say, “**Jiangjun**, take a look and let me know if anything is missing. I’ll have someone fetch it.”

“Will I be staying here from now on?” Zhao Huanxi asked.

Ma Laoliu replied, “That should be the case.”

“Earlier, Li **Jiangjun** said there’s no battles lately. What does that mean?” Zhao Huanxi asked again.

Ma Laoliu scratched his head and said, “Well, after Gudesiqin took two of our cities, he declared he’s going back to celebrate his mother’s fiftieth birthday. He said he’ll resume fighting after the birthday celebration, so there’s no battle for now.” He also left out one detail, which was that Gudesiqin had said he hoped to return and find the “old dog Zhao” waiting for him.

Zhao Huanxi didn’t quite understand why Gudesiqin could simply stop fighting like that. Couldn’t they start a battle on their side even if he wasn’t ready? But since he wasn’t very familiar with military matters, he didn’t voice his confusion.

He took off his helmet and placed it on the table, feeling very uncomfortable. Throughout the journey, with the limited opportunity to bathe, he had only encountered three rest stops with bathing facilities, so he had bathed only three times.

After scanning the tent, he turned around and saw Ma Laoliu, whose eyes were sparkling with curiosity, staring at him. When their eyes met, Ma Laoliu quickly forced a smile.

“Do we have a bathing tub? I’d like to bathe,” Zhao Huanxi asked.

Ma Laoliu replied, “There’s no bathing tub in the camp. The soldiers, if they want to wash up, just take a basin and fill it with water to wipe down.”

Zhao Huanxi looked at the small brass basin on the stand: “……”

“There’s a public bath in the city. If **Jiangjun** really wants to bathe, you could ask **Zhenshou Daren**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="the garrison commander; Li Ying"></sup> for permission to leave the camp,” Ma Laoliu suggested.

Zhao Huanxi quickly replied, “No need.” General Li didn't have a good opinion of him, and he didn’t want to bother him over something so trivial. If he couldn’t bathe, then so be it. After all, Dong **Jiejie** wasn’t here, and in front of others, what did it matter if he was a little dirty?

“Do we have pen, ink, paper, and a brush? I’d like to write a letter home to report that I’m safe.”

Ma Laoliu hurriedly said, “Please wait, **Jiangjun**. I’ll go get that for *you*.”

After he left, Zhao Huanxi sat on the bed, looking around at this strange and unfamiliar place. A sense of emptiness filled his heart, and he felt lost and unsure, not knowing where to go or what to do.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

At the beginning of the Ninth Month, **Guogong Yé** still had not awakened.  

Imperial Physician Zhang came to check his pulse every five days and administered acupuncture twice a month. Xiangzhong diligently cared for him, wiping his body daily and turning him over every hour. Even in the scorching heat, the bedridden **Guogong Yé** did not develop bedsores due to the meticulous care he received.

On this day, after managing household affairs, Yin Furen followed her usual routine of visiting Dunyi Hall to inquire about **Guogong Yé**'s condition. When she returned to Jixiang House, she found Zhao Jiaxian there. At that moment, Zhao Jiaxian and her sister, Zhao Jiazhen, were in Xu Nian’an's room, holding a few spring outfits for babies.

“If it’s a nephew, he can wear this one with pine and cypress patterns, symbolizing evergreen vitality. If it’s a niece, she can wear this one with plum and orchid patterns, representing virtue and grace,” said Zhao Jiaxian.

“**Si Jiejie** is so skilled! These embroideries are simply beautiful,” Xu Nian’an exclaimed as she admired the tiny garments and praised it endlessly.

Yin Furen entered with a smile and said, “What a hasty **Gugu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="paternal aunt; father's sister."></sup> we have here! You’ve already started making clothes so early. As the **Zumu**, I haven’t even had the chance to begin!”

Zhao Jiazhen laughed and replied, “That’s right ah, *you*, as **Zumu**, haven’t personally started yet. But one day *you* are sending a bolt of fabric to the embroidery room, and the next day *you* are sending another. I reckon that once my little nephew or niece is born, even if they change outfits every hour, there’ll still be more than enough clothes to wear.”

Her words made everyone burst into laughter.

Zhao Jiaxian stood up to greet Yin Furen before saying, “How could I not be in a hurry? First, I have to finish making clothes for my nephew or niece, and in a few months, I might have to start making some for my future *Wai* niece or nephew.”
<div class="author-note">
外甥外甥女 - Wai Sheng Wai Shengnu here means the children of one's sister. While 侄儿侄女 (Zhi Er Zhi Nu) means children of one's brother. 
</div>

Zhao Jiazhen’s face flushed instantly, and she reached out to pinch her sister. The two of them burst into laughter as they leaned into each other.

Yin Furen sat down nearby and gently asked Xu Nian’an, “How are you feeling today? Did you have a good breakfast?”

Xu Nian’an nodded. “It’s the same as yesterday, no changes.”

Yin Furen glanced at her still-flat belly and sighed. “This child of yours, whether a boy or a girl, will surely be a considerate and filial one. Even now, while still in the womb, they know not to trouble their mother.” At this, she raised her gaze and glared at Zhao Jiazhen and Zhao Jiaxian. “Not like these five children of mine. During their first three months, not a single one spared me from vomiting to the brink of death!”

“Aiyo, is Mom indirectly saying we’re not considerate or filial? What should we do about this?” Zhao Jiazhen teased, reaching out to pull Zhao Jiaxian along to pester Yin Furen playfully.

Just then, Qianhe hurried in and reported, “**Taitai**, **Da Laoyé** has returned with Du **Yiniang** and the families of Chao **Da Yé** (Zhao Huanchao) and Yang **Er Yé** (Zhao Huanyang). The gatekeeper followed *your* instructions and barred them from entering, but they’re making a scene outside.”

The Zhao sisters’ faces immediately fell upon hearing this.

Xu Nian’an made to rise, but Yin Furen quickly stopped her. “You stay seated. There’s no need for you to get involved. I’ll handle the matter in the front courtyard.”

As Yin Furen’s figure disappeared through the door, Zhao Jiaxian looked worriedly at her retreating back. “What should we do? Do you think Mother will be bullied by Father again?”

Zhao Jiazhen shook her head. “No. From the moment Huanxi left for Liaodong, Mother has made up her mind. Now that **Dimei** is expecting, there’s no way she’ll let Father and the *Shu* branch stir up trouble and disrupt the peace of the family. But Father is still the legitimate eldest son of the residence and her husband. If it comes to a direct confrontation, she might end up at a disadvantage.”

She stood up and said, “I’ll go see if **San Shu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="3rd uncle"></sup> (third uncle) and **Si Shu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="4th uncle"></sup> are home and ask them to help Mother handle this.”

At the side gate of the front courtyard, Zhao Mingkun, who had been stopped outside, was in a towering rage. 

“You wretched fools! Are you blind? How dare you block my way? If you don’t move aside right now, I’ll break your legs and sell you all off!”

“They are servants of the Guogong Residence, and their contracts are in my hands. What authority do you have to sell them?” Yin Furen’s voice came from behind as she approached.

The gatekeepers and guards immediately stepped aside respectfully and greeted her, “**Da Taitai**.”

Seeing the stark difference in how the servants treated him versus Yin **Shi**, Zhao Mingkun’s fury grew even more intense. He roared, “Yin **Shi**! Father is gravely ill, and yet you dare to bar me from entering and paying my respects? This is unfilial to your elders and disrespectful to your husband. I’ll divorce you!”

Yin Furen held herself with poise, head high, her gaze sweeping over the travel-worn and haggard figures of Concubine Du, Zhao Huanyang, and Wei **Shi** (Zhao Huanyang's wife), one by one. Her eyes softened slightly when they passed over the children but turned cold and unyielding again when they landed on Zhao Mingkun. She sneered, “Divorce me? Do you even have the capability? If you want to visit Father, fine, but only you can enter. You may pay your respects and then leave immediately. No one else is to set foot in this residence, not even a single step!”

“You’ve gone mad!” Zhao Mingkun bellowed.

Having spent the past year suffering humiliation and hardship in Pingliang Prefecture under the orders of **Guogong Yé** and the local governor, Zhao Mingkun’s life had been unbearably miserable. Now, having seized the chance to return while **Guogong Yé** lay gravely ill and unconscious, he found himself blocked at the gates by Yin Furen. How could he possibly endure this?

Unable to control his fury, Zhao Mingkun stepped forward, intending to lay hands on Yin Furen.

Yin Furen remained unmoved, her expression calm, as the residence guards swiftly positioned themselves in front of her, blocking Zhao Mingkun’s path.

"Yin **Shi**, in broad daylight and under everyone's gaze, do you really care nothing for your reputation?" Zhao Mingkun bellowed. He could not lower himself to fight with the guards, and shouting at them proved useless. Frustrated and seething, he could only direct his anger at Yin Furen.

Yin Furen's hatred flared as she looked at Zhao Mingkun. If not for this worthless father, the one to serve in the military in his father’s place should have been him. How could such a burden have fallen on the young Huanxi? If not for Nian’an’s pregnancy, she wouldn’t even care for her own life at this point, let alone her reputation.

“The order to drive you out came directly from **Gongdiē**. By barring your return, I am merely following his wishes. No matter how you spin it, I am in the right. If you’re unhappy about it, go ahead and file a complaint with the authorities.” Her voice was scornful, and her expression indifferent.

With that, Yin Furen turned and coldly instructed the gatekeeper and the guards, “Close the gate!”

The gatekeeper unhesitatingly slammed the side gate shut with a loud “bang” right in front of Zhao Mingkun’s face. Zhao Mingkun was so furious that his nose almost twisted out of shape. Muttering angrily, he fumed, “That shrew! That wretched shrew…” Yet despite his curses, he was at a complete loss for what to do.

Zhao Huanyang, standing to the side, spoke up, “How can a grandfather’s grave illness justify preventing his children and grandchildren from returning to visit? Yin Furen’s actions are truly excessive. Dad, why don’t we go find **Shu Zufu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="great-uncle,  paternal grandfather’s brothers"></sup>s? They’ll surely stand up for *you*.”

Zhao Mingkun, jolted by the suggestion, suddenly came to his senses. “You’re right. I’ve been so blinded by anger that I didn’t think of that. Even though Father is gravely ill and unconscious, my **Shufu**s are still around. I refuse to believe that I, the legitimate eldest son of the Guogong Residence, can’t prevail over an outsider like her who married into the family! Let’s go, off to your **Shu Zufu** residence!”
