---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 158"
snippet: "Bait."
order: 158
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Yin Furen’s efforts in raising funds and supplies for the refugees of Liaodong were so remarkable that even the inner palace heard of it.

That day, after finishing the morning court session, the Emperor, as usual, came to visit Liu Fuyi. However, he was surprised to see her directing the palace maids to pack the hairpins, jewelry, and other items he had gifted her into wooden boxes. Even many of the delicate and valuable ornaments in the hall were gone.

“**Ai Fei**, what are you… doing?” The emperor was somewhat baffled.

“Jing Guogong Residence is collecting supplies for the homeless refugees of Liaodong, right? Having been through similar hardships myself, I naturally must do my part,” Liu Fuyi said, coming over to take his hand.

The Emperor’s attention was immediately drawn to her. It was rare for her to take the initiative to approach him so affectionately.

But before he could revel in his delight, she deftly slipped the black jade thumb ring off his right hand with her two delicate fingers. Her naturally alluring, watery eyes glanced slyly at him as she said, “These are your people. You should contribute too, don’t you think?”

What could the Emperor say? He forced a smile and replied, “Of course, as long as it makes **Ai Fei** happy.”

Liu Fuyi placed the thumb ring into the wooden box as well and instructed the palace maid, “Take the box to Jing Guogong Residence and tell them that the black jade thumb ring inside was personally donated by His Majesty. Also, have them record the names of everyone who has contributed funds or supplies. I will review the list later.”

As soon as Liu Fuyi sent out the box of jewelry and made her declaration, the Jing Guogong Residence became even busier than ever.

Those who had previously played deaf now had no choice but to dig deep into their pockets. Those who had initially made only token contributions found themselves returning to make additional donations.

By now, everyone  inside and outside the palace knew how favored Imperial Concubine Li, Liu Fuyi, was. If she said she would review the donation list, and if the Emperor happened to glance at it while she did... well, better to give more than less, just to be safe.

With such collective effort, Yin Furen managed to raise over 50,000 taels of silver, more than 3,000 cotton garments, and over 14,000 *shi* (≈ 14,000,000 littres) of grain in less than a month.

The government dispatched troops to escort the supplies, and **Guogong Yé** ordered his fourth son, Zhao Mingpei, to oversee the transport of the goods and silver to Liaodong, with the additional task of checking in on Zhao Huanxi on his behalf. 

After Guangning secured the borrowed grain and winter clothing from the surrounding areas, Zhao Huanxi rarely left the main camp, continuing his daily training with Cao Sandao and the others.

As the snow fell heavier and the temperature dropped lower, the border fell into a deep silence, blanketed in a vast expanse of icy white.

In such weather, launching a long-distance raid would be tantamount to seeking death.

Yet, no matter how cold it became, the training in Guangning’s camp never slackened for even a day. Everyone knew that once spring arrived, as soon as the snow stopped and the temperatures began to rise, the Tiele cavalry would undoubtedly attack again.

<br>
<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>
<br>

On Xu Nian’an’s birthday, she received a gift from Zhao Huanxi—a large bag of pine nuts and a painting depicting the daily life of the refugees in the Guangning camp. Zhao Huanxi told her that the refugees now had their basic needs secured and should be able to endure the harsh winter.

Yin Furen was overjoyed. Pine nuts (松子-sōng zǐ), deliver a child (送子 (sòng zǐ)). That very night, she took out the small boy’s clothes she had tucked away at the bottom of a chest and admired them once again.
<div class="author-note">
Yin Furen made a play on words here. The phrase 松子 (pine nuts) is phonetically similar to 送子 (delivering a child). This wordplay carries an auspicious meaning, as "送子" is associated with blessings for fertility and children.
</div>

Meanwhile, **Si Laoye** Zhao Mingpei endured the bitter cold of winter to make the journey to Liaodong. He returned to the capital in the Second Month of the following year, his ears covered in frostbite, and reported to **Guogong Yé** that Zhao Huanxi was doing well at the Guangning camp. He noted that Zhao Huanxi had grown taller, looked stronger, and even howled like a wolf cub during training.

**Guogong Yé** felt both comforted and heartbroken by this report and instructed Zhao Mingpei to share the news with Yin Furen as well.

<br>

At the end of the Third Month, the Tiele army mobilized, splitting into two forces and heading straight for Ruidong Fort, an outpost near Guangning.

The atmosphere in the Guangning camp was tense.

In the main tent, the Garrison Commander Li Ying, who was overseeing the defense, was discussing strategies for the upcoming battle with several capable subordinate of brigade generals and geurilla generals.

Around a map spread flat on the table, the group expressed their opinions.

One of the brigade general said, "Ruidong Fort is located at the frontier. While we can rely on its strong defenses to hold the position, if we don’t take the initiative to attack, we’ll lose the upper hand. However, if we do take the initiative, the open terrain outside the fort will leave us vulnerable to the Tiele cavalry encircling us from both flanks, putting us at a severe disadvantage."

"The Tiele forces are advancing in two separate routes. We must first defeat one of them to stand a chance of victory."

"Gudesiqin is cunning, experienced, and a formidable warrior. It won’t be easy to outwit him. The other route is led by his trusted subordinate, Glizhahei. Though also brave and skilled in battle, he is rash and quick-tempered. Targeting him might yield better results."

Li Ying listened to his subordinates discuss for a moment, then reached out and pointed to a spot on the map.

The others leaned in to look and saw that he had pointed to the stretch of rocky mountains lying between Tiele and Ruidong Fort.

Within the rocky mountains, there was a narrow pass called Baishi Gorge that could be traversed. However, the terrain was narrow and rugged, making it highly disadvantageous for cavalry. As such, the Tiele army would rather detour around the sides of the mountain range than take the shortcut through the center.

"Send a team to circle through Baishi Gorge to the rear of the Tiele forces and feign an attack on their supply wagons and provisions. This will draw one of their cavalry units to respond. Then dispatch the main army to cut off their retreat and annihilate them within Baishi Gorge. This plan should succeed," Li Ying said.

"If they detect that we’ve sent men through the shortcut to raid their supplies, with Glizhahei’s temperament, he certainly won’t tolerate it. **Jiangjun**, this strategy is feasible. **Mo Jiang**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="a humble self-reference used by military officers"></sup> is willing to lead the troops and act as bait to lure the enemy," several guerilla generals eagerly volunteered.

Li Ying, however, shook his head at all of them and said, “The key to this strategy lies in making the Tiele forces genuinely believe that we are using the shortcut to steal their supplies and provisions, rather than intentionally luring their cavalry into Baishi Gorge. After all, once our men enter Baishi Gorge, if the Tiele cavalry flanks them from behind, they will have no escape and will certainly perish. If not as part of a ruse, such an action would be tantamount to suicide, utterly foolish. Therefore, the person leading this team must be someone whom the Tiele forces would believe capable of making such a foolish move and, more importantly, someone they would never suspect we’d send out as bait.”

Hearing this, everyone fell into deep thought.

The Tiele forces were old rivals, they knew each other inside and out. Whether they sent a well-known general or an ordinary soldier, the Tiele forces wouldn’t be easily deceived. The plan was sound, but its execution seemed nearly impossible.

After a round of discussion, the group left the main tent, each lost in their own thoughts. Outside the tent, Zhao Huanxi waited for an audience with Li Ying.

“Li **Jiangjun**, I heard that Cao Sandao’s team is being reassigned to defend Ruidong Fort. I request to be transferred with them,” Zhao Huanxi said, clasping his hands respectfully after entering the tent.

“No,” Li Ying replied.

Zhao Huanxi was taken aback. “Why not?” he asked.

Li Ying said, “Ruidong Fort is about to face an attack from the Tiele forces. You cannot go.”

Zhao Huanxi clenched his fists and said, “Li **Jiangjun**, even if *you* believe I lack the ability and qualifications to fight on the battlefield like Cao Sandao and the others, surely I can cook for them or help treat the wounded. My hands and feet are in good condition, there must be something I can do. With a great battle ahead, I ask Li **Jiangjun** to allow me the chance to contribute to our soldiers and our people in whatever smallest way possible.”

"Your **Zufu** wrote to me, explicitly instructing that I not allow you onto the battlefield. He has shown me great kindness in the past, and I owe him this favor," Li Ying said solemnly.

Zhao Huanxi was left speechless, his face turning bright red with frustration.

He stood silently for a moment before clasping his hands in a salute to Li Ying, then turned away, despondent.

“Zhao Huanxi,” Li Ying suddenly called out from behind him, “tell me, why did you come to Liaodong in the first place?”

Zhao Huanxi stopped in his tracks, turned back, and looked at him. “At first, it was for my **Zufu**, to uphold the reputation that the Zhao Family has built over generations. But now, I believe everything I do is simply my duty.”

“A soldier’s life has always been torn between loyalty and filial piety. Which will you choose? Loyalty or filial piety?” Li Ying pressed.

Zhao Huanxi replied, “I have a kind and loving mother. If I were to choose filial piety, I shouldn’t have left home in the first place.”

Li Ying nodded. “Very well.”

Seeing the hesitation in Li Ying’s eyes, Zhao Huanxi began to understand, perhaps General Li did want him to go to the battlefield after all.

“Li **Jiangjun**, I understand **Zufu**’s concern for my safety, and I understand your need to respect his wishes. But I want to say this: since I’ve come to Liaodong, I don’t want it to be for nothing. Perhaps this is the only chance I’ll ever have to step onto a battlefield in my entire life. Whether this experience becomes something I’m ashamed to mention or something I can take pride i, it all depends on your decision.”

Li Ying stared at the delicate yet youthful face of the boy before him for a long moment before speaking. “Come here.”

Zhao Huanxi stepped up to the large wooden desk.

“There’s something that you’re the most suitable candidate for. According to the plan, your life shouldn’t be in danger. But the battlefield changes in an instant, and blades and arrows have no eyes. The moment you step onto it, no one can guarantee you’ll return alive. So, do you dare to go?”

Zhao Huanxi hesitated for a moment before answering, “If I’m the most suitable person for the task, then it’s not a question of daring or not. I’ll go.”

Li Ying spread out the map and explained in detail to Zhao Huanxi the plan he had just discussed with the deputy generals.

“...You don’t need to fight. Once you enter Baishi Gorge, as soon as you spot the Tiele cavalry entering the gorge, you and your team just head up the mountain. Once our main force blocks the gorge's exit, the Tiele cavalry won’t have time to bother with you.”

“Will the Tiele cavalry really fall for this and enter Baishi Gorge?” Zhao Huanxi asked.

“They will, as long as you go,” Li Ying replied. “Because you’re the grandson of Zhao **Lao Jiangjun**. Capturing you alive and using you as a sacrifice before their army would mean more to the Tiele forces, who were nearly wiped out by your grandfather, than conquering a city.”

Zhao Huanxi stared at the rocky mountains on the map. In his mind, the faces of that pair of brother and sister whom he had met in the city before flashed again. He nodded solemnly. “I’ll go.”

<br>

They couldn’t act immediately. First, they had to create a pretense and let the Tiele spies lurking in Guangning relay the news. After all, Zhao Huanxi had been staying in Guangning for a while, behaving himself without any unusual actions. If he suddenly led a team through Baishi Gorge to launch a surprise attack on the Tiele rear, it would seem suspicious.

So, that day, Zhao Huanxi took Cao Sandao and the others to a tavern in the city to drink. Drunk and boisterous, he began cursing loudly.

“Why does Li Ying look down on me? If it weren’t for my **Zufu**’s support, where would he be today? He’s nothing! I’m the heir grandson of Jing Guogong, and I became the Yunhui **Jiangjun** at seventeen! What was Li Ying doing at seventeen? Probably still playing in the mud, hahaha!” Zhao Huanxi shouted, his cheeks flushed as he waved his wine cup, paying no mind to the curious glances of the other patrons. Grabbing Cao Sandao’s collar, he continued loudly, “Do you know? On my very first day here, he said to my face, ‘What a pity your **Zufu** was a hero all his life, but left no worthy heirs!’ Bah! If I don’t achieve something that makes him look at me with respect, I won’t even bear the surname Zhao anymore!”

In the end, Zhao Huanxi got so drunk that Cao Sandao and the others had to carry him back to camp, utterly incapacitated.

The next morning, once sober, Zhao Huanxi went to the main tent to see Li Ying. Although he knew the drunken rant at the tavern was all part of the act, he couldn’t help feeling embarrasse. He had never insulted anyone so harshly before. 

Li Ying said to him, “Tomorrow afternoon, the Third Battalion will be reassigned to Ruidong Fort. You can take this opportunity to lead Cao Sandao and Lu Xiaolin’s teams to carry out the plan.”

“Understood,” Zhao Huanxi replied, accepting the order.

Li Ying placed a hand on his shoulder, as if wanting to say something more, but hesitated.

Zhao Huanxi looked at him expectantly, waiting for his words.

In the end, Li Ying simply gripped his shoulder firmly and said, “Go.”

After Zhao Huanxi left, Brigade General Yu Rongwei entered the tent. “**Zhenshou**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="Garrison Commander"></sup>, are we really letting the young Zhao **Jiangjun** lead this mission? With such a pass available, the Tiele forces are bound to have defenses in place.”

“Even if there are defenses, their numbers won’t be significant. With the combined strength of Cao Sandao and Lu Xiaolin’s squad, they’ll be able to handle it,” Li Ying replied, his expression turning steely. “Gudesiqin is narrow-minded and arrogant by nature. He would never tolerate Zhao **Lao Jiangjun**’s grandson achieving success right under his nose. That is the true purpose of sending him.”

“But in doing so…” Yu Rongwei hesitated.

“If Gudesiqin can be killed, the Tiele forces will be leaderless and plunge into chaos once more. If we can seize the opportunity to destroy them, that would be ideal. If not, at the very least, the people along the border will enjoy another twenty years of peace. For that, anyone’s death is acceptable, including mine,” Li Ying said coldly.
