---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 163"
snippet: "I really have an adorable, jade-like daughter?!"
order: 163
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

The Emperor had been in a good mood lately. Firstly, because Liu Fuyi was pregnant, and secondly, naturally, because of the victorious battle in Liaodong.

Yu Rongwei and Zhao Huanxi took turns presenting themselves before the Emperor. When it was Zhao Huanxi's turn, the Emperor stroked his increasingly sparse short beard and looked at the young man kneeling before him with a smile, saying, “This is your first time on the battlefield, and you managed to single-handedly slay the Tiele King, Gudesiqin. Zhao Huanxi, you are indeed the grandson of Zhao Kaishuo. **Zhen** must reward you generously. Tell **Zhen**, what reward would you like?”

Zhao Huanxi replied, “Replying to Your Majesty, the slaying of Gudesiqin was not solely my accomplishment. Without the hundred soldiers who fought together, **Chen** would have long perished without a burial place. If Your Majesty insists on granting rewards, **Chen** humbly requests compensation to the 97 soldiers who perished at Baishi Gorge and reward the three survivors, including Cao Sandao.”

“Li Ying already requested compensation for the fallen soldiers of Baishi Gorge in the battle report, and **Zhen** has already sent people to handle it. As for your merits in slaying the enemy and serving the nation, how can you not be rewarded? If you truly cannot think of anything you desire, how about letting you keep the title General Yunhui?” the Emperor said.

Even though it was an honorary title, it was still a aub-third grade position. Bestowing such a title on Zhao Huanxi, a young man not yet twenty, could truly be described as imperial grace and generosity.

“Thanking Your Majesty for the kindness, but **Chen** cannot accept,” Zhao Huanxi said, bowing his head in refusal.

The chief eunuch, Hong Feng, standing by the side, cast a surprised glance at him. It was the first time he had seen someone dare to refuse an official position granted by the Emperor.

The Emperor was equally astonished. Leaning back against his chair, he stared at Zhao Huanxi and asked, “Why is that?” 

“**Chen**‘s left shoulder was severely injured, causing the left arm to lose its strength. **Chen** fears One will never be able to return to the battlefield. Carrying the title of general would be too shameful then. **Chen** wishes to continue my studies and take the imperial examinations to become a civil official,” Zhao Huanxi replied.

The Emperor studied the frail and gaunt youth before him. Compared to a military officer, he indeed looked more suited to be a civil official.

"Since you want nothing for yourself, then **Zhen** shall bestow a title of honor upon your mother," the Emperor said. "Even if you later resign from the position of General Yunhui, your mother's title will not be revoked. If **Zhen** does not reward merit, how can One maintain the morale of the army?"

This time, Zhao Huanxi did not refuse. He knelt properly and bowed his head in gratitude for the Emperor's grace.

He exited the Imperial Palace and saw from afar the two young servants, Zhiyi and Zhi'er, leading a horse toward him at a brisk pace.

“**San Yé**, *you* are finally back! Let’s hurry home. **Taitai**, **San Nainai** and others have been eagerly awaiting *you* since morning, their eyes are practically worn out from watching!” Zhiyi, looking at Zhao Huanxi, who had grown noticeably thinner and more haggard after a year, spoke with tears in his eyes and a choked voice.

Zhao Huanxi, however, smiled and nodded. “Yes, let’s go home.”

The main gate of Jing Guogong Residence opened wide once again. A large crowd of people, led by **Guogong Yé** himself in a wooden wheelchair, gathered at the gate, all waiting for Zhao Huanxi’s return.

As soon as Zhao Huanxi appeared on horseback at the end of the long street, a stir spread through the crowd at the residence’s entrance.

“He’s back, he's back! Huanxi is back!”

From a distance, Zhao Huanxi saw the crowd gathered in front of the residence gates, and his heart surged with emotion.

Although he couldn’t yet make out their faces, he knew they were his family, the family he thought he would never see again during his time in Baishi Gorge.

Spurring his horse into a gallop, he raced down the long street like a whirlwind, arriving at Jing Guogong Residence gates. Dismounting swiftly, he dropped to one knee before **Guogong Yé**’s woodem wheelchair, choking back tears as he saluted, “**Zufu**, **Sun'er** has returned.”

**Guogong Yé**’s emotions were tumultuous as he fought back tears, extending a weathered, powerful hand to pat Zhao Huanxi’s head. “Good child. It’s good that you’re back, it’s good that you’re back. Go see your mother.”

Zhao Huanxi rose and turned his gaze toward Yin Furen, who stood just behind **Guogong Yé**.

Yin Furen was already in tears. When Zhao Huanxi approached and called her "Mother," she embraced him tightly and wept bitterly.

After greeting Yin Furen, it was Xu Nian’an’s turn.

She hadn’t cried when she saw him off, but now that he had returned, her tears fell like raindrops on pear blossoms. A full year of worry and longing was finally released in this moment.

“Dong **Jiejie**…” Zhao Huanxi, overcome with emotion, could only call her once before pulling her into his arms, tears streaming down his face.

After exchanging greetings with his elder sisters, brothers-in-law, **Shushu**s, **Shenshen**s, and Tang cousins in the household, Zhao Huanxi’s face was still streaked with tears when he suddenly came face-to-face with a chubby, fair-skinned little dumpling.

Hui **Ge’er** was nestled in his wet nurse’s arms, happily gnawing on his tiny fist, drooling as his bright, black eyes stared intently at Zhao Huanxi.

Zhao Huanxi froze for a moment before asking, “Has our household welcomed a new addition? Whose child is this? Such a handsome little one.”

The somber atmosphere lightened instantly as Lu Feng, a few of the cousins, and even Nie Guocheng and Xuan **Jie’er** burst out laughing.

Yin Fueen also broke into a smile, dabbing at the corners of her eyes with a handkerchief as she said, “Whose child? Yours.”

Zhao Huanxi was taken aback. “...Mine? I...” He trailed off mid-sentence and abruptly turned to look at Xu Nian’an.

Xu Nian’an, a little flustered, nodded shyly.

Zhao Huanxi looked at Hui **Ge’er** again, his eyes wide with disbelief. Gently pinching the child’s chubby arm, he exclaimed excitedly, “M-my… I really have an adorable, jade-like daughter?!”

Hui **Ge’er** pulled his little hand out of his mouth and promptly reached out to grab his father’s face, smearing half of it with drool.

The people around them burst into laughter again.

Holding her stomach from laughing so hard, Zhao Jiazhen teased, “Huanxi must really want a daughter!”

**Si Taitai** laughed so hard she leaned back and forth, saying, “We should put Hui **Ge’er** in crotchless pants. That way, his father will never make this mistake again.”

A son?!

Zhao Huanxi locked eyes with Hui **Ge’er**—one was utterly shocked, while the other was face full of calmness.

Meeting his father’s astonished gaze, Hui **Ge’er** nonchalantly shoved his chubby hand back into his mouth, squinting his eyes as he contentedly sucked on it.

Zhao Huanxi: “.....”

After everyone returned to their respective courtyard and residence, Zhao Huanxi followed **Guogong Yé** to Dunyi Hall.

Xiang Zhong pushed **Guogong Yé**’s wheelchair to a spot beneath the study window and served tea for the two of them. He then closed the door behind him, leaving the grandfather and grandson alone to talk.

“The details of the Liaodong campaign, Li **Jiangjun** has already written to inform me. You’ve endured much hardship. Upon your return to court today, what did His Majesty the Emperor say?” **Guogong Yé** asked.

Zhao Huanxi stood up from his chair, walked over to **Guogong Yé**, and knelt before him. “His Majesty said he wanted to reward me and have me continue as the General Yunhui. I... I refused. **Zufu**, I don’t want to go to the battlefield again.

“After this campaign, I’ve come to understand what it means for the ignorant to be fearless. A year ago, when I set off for Liaodong, I thought, ‘At worst, I’ll die. There’s nothing to fear'. But once on the battlefield, I realized that dying myself isn’t frightening. What’s terrifying is watching your comrades, your brothers-in-arms, fall one by one before you. What’s terrifying is seeing someone who was joking and laughing with you one moment, lying lifeless on the battlefield the next.

“I know they fought for home and country, for the people. But, **Zufu**, I am weak-hearted and lack the resolve for such noble causes. I truly cannot bear it…” His voice broke as he spoke, tears streaming down his face.

**Guogong Yé**’s eyes grew moist as he looked at his grandson kneeling at his feet. He spoke in a soft voice, “**Zufu** understands. You need not feel ashamed. Even though you couldn’t bear it, you held on until the end, ensuring their blood was not shed in vain. That is enough. Serving the country and the people does not only mean going to the battlefield. If you feel this path is not right for you, then leave it to someone more suited for it, that is not wrong. No matter what the future holds, **Zufu** is proud of you.”

<br>

At noon, Yin Furen hosted a grand banquet at Jiaxiang House to welcome Zhao Huanxi. The gathering remained lively until after the afternoon, with guests gradually dispersing.

Zhao Huanxi returned to Shenhui Courtyard, where Xu Nian'an and Mingli were sitting beside the small bed, keeping watch over the still-sleeping Hui **Ge’er**. Upon seeing Zhao Huanxi return, Mingli quietly left the room.

Xu Nian'an stood up.

The long-separated couple gazed at each other, their eyes shimmering with tears.

"Dong **Jiejie**." Zhao Huanxi quickly walked over and embraced Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an held him tightly, softly sobbing as she murmured, "If there’s ever a next time, I’ll be selfish and never let you go again.”

Zhao Huanxi choked with emotion and said, "I won't leave again, I promise. I’ve told His Majesty that I won’t go to the battlefield anymore."

Xu Nian'an, sniffling, tilted her head back to look at him and asked, "Did His Majesty agree?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I told him my left arm is useless, and I can't fight anymore. He had no choice but to agree."

Xu Nian'an lowered her gaze to his left arm.

Zhao Huanxi moved his left hand and reassured her, "Don’t worry, it’s not completely useless, just a bit difficult to lift. The military physician told me that as long as I keep exercising, I won't have any problems in daily life."

Xu Nian'an returned to his embrace.

"Dong **Jiejie**, I rejected the Emperor's reward. He said he would bestow a noble title on Mother as a mark of appreciation. I’ve been away, and you’ve endured so much hardship, yet I haven’t been able to bring you anything. I’m sorry.”

"I don’t want anything, I just want you to come back," Xu Nian'an murmured.

The young couple held each other tightly for a long while. After their emotions settled a bit, Zhao Huanxi looked over at Hui **Ge'er**, who was curled up in the small wooden bed, sleeping in a frog-like pose.

The tiny baby had his fists raised at the sides of his big head, his long, dark eyelashes peacefully closed. His soft, rosy lips were slightly puckered, and his little belly rose and fell with each breath, deep in a restful sleep.

Seeing him, Zhao Huanxi felt a bit at a loss and sighed, "We agreed that you wouldn’t have to have the baby alone, yet how come…?"

Xu Nian'an's cheeks flushed with embarrassment. She gave him a playful punch and retorted, "You’re asking me? Don’t you know what you did?"

Zhao Huanxi took her hand and, with a guilty look, asked, "Was it really hard on you?”

Xu Nian'an turned her face away and said, "No, Mother took great care of me, I didn’t suffer much."

"You’re lying. **Er Jie** and **Si Jie** both gained weight after giving birth. But you didn’t gain weight, you actually even lost some," Zhao Huanxi said.

"I did gain some weight," Xu Nian'an said, her expression slightly awkward.

Zhao Huanxi looked her over, then asked, "Where did you gain weight? I don’t see it."

Xu Nian'an blushed under his gaze, turning her back to him, and huffed, "Why do you need to see it? I said I gained weight, so I gained weight."

"Alright, alright, if you say you gained weight, then you gained weight. Don’t be upset," Zhao Huanxi tugged at her sleeve, apologizing without a hint of hesitation.

Xu Nian'an turned back to face him, gently touching his thin face, and said, "But you, you’ve lost so much weight, you don’t look as good anymore."

"I’ll get back to looking good, don’t dislike me," Zhao Huanxi pressed her hand against his cheek and rubbed it affectionately.

"En," Xu Nian'an nodded.

Zhao Huanxi tried to hug her again, but as Xu Nian’an leaned against his chest, her eyes swept over to the small bed, and she quickly pushed him away.

Following her gaze, Zhao Huanxi looked over at the bed and saw that Hui **Ge’er** had somehow woken up. Quietly, without fuss, the baby was sucking on his hand, staring at them with a pair of shiny, wide eyes.
