---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 164"
snippet: "Wrapping Up."
order: 164
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

After Hui **Ge’er** woke up, the wet nurse took him to change his diaper and fed him milk, then handed him back to Xu Nian'an.

Xu Nian'an cradled Hui **Ge’er** in her lap, while Zhao Huanxi used the velvet fabric mouse to tease him.

"When was he born?" Zhao Huanxi asked Xu Nian'an.

"The 9th of the Fourth Month."

Zhao Huanxi froze for a moment.

"What's wrong?"

"Nothing," Zhao Huanxi lowered his gaze, trying hard not to recall the bloody, cold gorge, and continued, "Has he been given a name?"

"Zufu named him Chengping," Xu Nian'an replied.
<div class="author-note">
The name 承平 (Chéngpíng) consists of two characters:<br>
承 (Chéng) means "to inherit," "to carry on," or "to bear."<br>
平 (Píng) means "peace," "calm," or "flat."<br>
So, the name 承平 can be interpreted as "to inherit peace" or "to carry on the peace".
</div>

Zhao Huanxi asked, "He didn't follow the generational name tradition?"

<div class="author-note">
What Zhao Huanxi is referring to here is the naming tradition followed by each generation in the Jing Guogong Residence, where a standard naming pattern is observed for the descendants. For example:
<br><br>
- For the sons of Guogong Ye, the family name followed the "Ming" generation, like Zhao Mingkun, Zhao Mingzeng, Zhao Mingjun, Zhao Mingpei, and Zhao Mingcheng.<br>
- For the grandsons, the names followed the "Huan" generation, such as Zhao Huanchao, Zhao Huanyang, Zhao Huanxu, Zhao Huanxi, and Zhao Huanrong.<br>
- For the granddaughters, there were two main naming styles:<br>
    - In Zhangfang: Zhao Jiashan, Zhao Jiayi, Zhao Jiazhen, Zhao Jiaxian, Zhao Jiahui, Zhao Jiarong, among others.<br>
    - The other granddaughters were named Zhao Shuxian and Zhao Shutong.<br>
However, there are a few exceptions to this pattern, such as Zhao Chengke, who did not follow the generational “Jia” nor “Shu” name.<br><br>
  As for the great-grandchildren, the names recorded for the male children include Zhao Yujie and Zhao Yucheng, and for the female, Zhao Yanjun (these are Zhao Huanchao’s children). 
<br>
Given this tradition, Zhao Huanxi expected that his son would also follow the generational naming pattern and be given a name starting with "Yu", as with the other great-grandchildren.
</div> 

Xu Nian'an nodded. "**Zufu** said that the day he was born was also the day of the victory in the Liaodong campaign, so he chose this name to commemorate it.”

"That’s good too," Zhao Huanxi said as he held his son's little fist, preventing him from putting the plush mouse into his mouth.

Hui **Ge’er** silently switched the plush mouse to the hand that wasn't caught and stuffed it into his mouth.

Zhao Huanxi smiled and said, "He's so smart."

Xu Nian'an raised an eyebrow and glanced at him, not replying.

Zhao Huanxi watched his son grin for a moment, then belatedly realized something. Noticing her strange expression, he asked, "What's wrong? Why are you looking at me like that?"

Xu Nian'an replied, "Today, Ah Xiu gave me a letter, saying it was something you gave him before you left for battle at the Ten-Mile Pavilion."

Zhao Huanxi froze.

Xu Nian'an said softly, "I only just found out that we were divorced last year’s Seventh Month. At that time, Hui **Ge’er** will be born after our separation. If I leave, can I take him with me?”

Zhao Huanxi stood there, dumbfounded, and speechless, completely at a loss...

In his panic, he suddenly had an idea. He reached out and covered his abdomen, bending over with a frown.

Previously, **Guogong Yé** had told Yin Furen and the others that Zhao Huanxi was finishing up matters in Liaodong, but he did not mention that he was recuperating there. Xu Nian'an thought his injury was only in his left arm. Seeing him now, she said, "Every time something happens that you can't handle, you pretend to have a stomach ache. How old are you?"

Zhao Huanxi weakly replied, "I'm fine, just the wound hurts. I'll be fine after resting for a bit." After saying this, he used the table for support and stood up, hunched over as he made his way to the bed.

Xu Nian'an looked suspiciously at his retreating figure.

Hui **Ge'er** started fussing on her lap, wanting her to carry him around. Xu Nian'an then handed him over to the wet nurse in the side room and returned to check on Zhao Huanxi.

Zhao Huanxi lay on the bed.

Xu Nian'an sat down at the edge of the bed and asked, "Is your abdomen injured too?"

Zhao Huanxi nodded.

"Is it serious? Let me see."

Zhao Huanxi hesitated for a moment before he reached down to unfasten his belt.

Xu Nian'an opened his outer garment and lifted the hem of his inner clothes, revealing the long scar with pinkish, overgrown tissue.

This... was he stabbed in the stomach?

Xu Nian'an looked up at him in shock, then reached out to undo his inner garment.

When her gaze landed on the numerous scars on his chest and shoulders, she covered her mouth with her hand, her eyes glistening with tears.

How many times had he been struck? How much blood had he lost?

He truly... almost couldn't come back!

"Dong **Jiejie**, don't cry. It's fine, I'm alive," Zhao Huanxi gently took her wrist in his hand and softly comforted her. "Don't be angry about the divorce papers, okay? I know that if I hadn't come back, you would have been heartbroken and sad. I was just thinking, you're still young, and life is long. Maybe one day, you'll meet someone who can pull you out of sadness and give you hope for life again, just like when I met you. I only hope that if that day comes, you will have the right to choose, not just be left to grow old alone in this residnece's back courtyard. If that happens, I won't be able to rest in peace."

"You're such a fool," Xu Nian'an said, tears falling.

"When I was at Baishi Gorge, I really almost didn’t make it back. At that time, the only comfort I had was knowing I had arranged an escape route for both you and Mother. I just never expected that you would give me a son. Fortunately, I made it back. Otherwise, I would have truly owed you so much," Zhao Huanxi said, his eyes glistening with tears.

Xu Nian'an wiped her tears with a handkerchief, then straightened his clothes. Afterward, she lay down beside him and looked at him, saying, "With so many injuries, why didn't you stay in Liaodong a bit longer to recover? The journey is long... can your body handle it?"

"I missed you all too much. Once I could get out of bed, I couldn't stay in Liaodong any longer. I'm fine, look, I'm back in one piece," Zhao Huanxi turned his body to face her.

"This can't be concealed. I need to call a physician to take a look and help you properly recover. And don't worry about Mother being heartbroken or sad. If you don't take care of yourself and leave lingering issues, that will truly make her sad for a long time," Xu Nian'an said.

"Alright, I'll listen to you. But make sure to find a physician who can not only help my body recover but also improve my appearance," Zhao Huanxi replied.

Xu Nian'an lightly punched him, then broke into a smile through her tears.

Zhao Huanxi reached out and pulled her into his embrace. Looking out at the bright sunlight through the window, he said, "Call me selfish or cowardly, it doesn't matter. From now on, I will never leave you again.”

Xu Nian'an said, "Even if you want to leave, it depends on whether I allow you to."

Zhao Huanxi chuckled.

In the tranquil afternoon, the young couple held each other close, their hearts free of distractions, simply enjoying the harmony between them, and felt that the life was peaceful and serene.

Xu Nian'an ordered someone to fetch a physician. When Yin Furen learned the reason, she couldn’t help but cry and wail once again. Xu Nian'an had the nurse bring Hui **Ge'er** over, placed him in her arms, and that was enough to stop her tears.

Yin Furen supported Hui **Ge'er** under his arms, helping him stand at the edge of the bed. With red-rimmed eyes, she looked at Zhao Huanxi, who was lying on the bed, and said, "Don't rush back to the academy to study. There will be plenty of time in the future. You can go back when you're fully recovered."

Zhao Huanxi absentmindedly nodded as he watched Hui **Ge'er**‘s chubby little feet, short and bald at the toes, stomping on the bed's edge.

When Yin Furen left, Xu Nian'an accompanied her to the courtyard. After dismissing the servants, Yin Furen spoke to Xu Nian'an, "Huanxi looks quite weak. For the next few months, don't... indulge him, even if he gets clingy. You still have many years ahead, there's no rush. The important thing is to let him fully recover."

Xu Nian'an's face flushed slightly, and she said, "I understand.”

After seeing Yin Furen off, Xu Nian'an returned to her room and heard Hui **Ge'er**’s cheerful laughter coming from the next room.

She walked over and saw Hui **Ge'er** lying on his back on the bed, with Zhao Huanxi sitting in front of him. He covered his face with his hands, moving them back and forth in front of the boy, and then suddenly removed his hands, exclaiming "Wa!" Hui **Ge'er** immediately grinned widely, his toothless little mouth breaking into a fit of giggles, laughing nonstop, clearly enjoying himself.

Xu Nian'an’s eyes glistened as she smiled, her heart warmed. This, she thought, was the ideal family life she had always dreamed of.

<br>

A few days later, **Guogong Yé** summoned the family members to the ancestral hall again, to perform a ritual for their ancestors and officially establish Zhao Huanxi as the heir grandson.

A few more days passed, and early in the morning, someone from the court arrived with an imperial decree for Yin Furen.

Zhao Huanxi had not informed Yin Furen of the news in advance. She arrived at Songmao Hall, completely bewildered, only to find that **Guogong Yé** had already arranged a ceremonial table for her to receive the imperial decree.

The Emperor had bestowed upon her the title of third-rank Imperial Mandate Lady, along with a number of gifts: a villa at the hot springs, twenty rolls of golden satin, soft smoke gauze, cicada-winged silk, and pomegranate silk, as well as a number of other luxurious items, including a large quantity of Eastern pearls, a pair of Ruyi scepters, a set of golden-inlaid Eastern pearl longevity locks, a pair of golden peace and Ruyi bangles, various precious medicinal materials, and five hundred taels of silver.
<div class="author-note">
"诰命夫人" (gàomìngfūrén) Imperial Mandate Mrs.) was an honorary title given to the wives or mothers of high-ranking officials. It was conferred based on the official's rank, with those of the first to fifth ranks receiving the title. While it provided the woman with a stipend, it did not grant any actual political power. It is a symbol of honor and respect.
</div>

Yin Furen, her mind in a daze, gratefully accepted the decree.

After the imperial messenger had left, the entire household came to congratulate Yin Furen.

**Si Taitai**, with a hint of envy, remarked, "Everyone used to say that Huanxi was no good, but look at him now! At eighteen, he’s already earned a third-rank Imperial Mandate Lady title for **Da Sao**. Some people work hard all their lives and still can't achieve such a thing. **Da Sao** has truly endured hardship and now enjoys the rewards."

**San Taitai** chimed in agreement.

**Wu Taitai** sat quietly by the side, her face filled with shame.

Yin Furen thought of her son's many injuries and felt a pang of heartache. With a sigh, she said, "If I had a choice, I would rather Huanxi had never left home.”

Later, as more and more relatives came to congratulate her upon hearing the news, Yin Furen had no choice but to host a banquet to celebrate with everyone.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

Under the blazing summer sun, the days passed slowly and steadily.

Xu Nian'an and Zhao Huanxi moved to the more spacious and airy Yifang Garfen, bringing Hui **Ge'er** along with them.

On the surface, Zhao Huanxi seemed fine. His daily routine consisted of recuperating at home, playing with his son, visiting Master Shang and Elder Qiu, and meeting Qian Ming and the others on rest days to eat, chat, and gather. As for Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng, with the autumn exams approaching, he refrained from disturbing them.

But only Xu Nian'an knew that every night, he would wake up from nightmares, crying and unable to fall back asleep until the middle of the night.

Zhao Huanxi recounted to Xu Nian'an the harrowing ordeal he and his hundred brothers faced in the Baishi Gorge. Xu Nian'an came to understand that this was a wound in his heart, one no external force could heal. It could only be left to time to slowly mend.

As the Eighth Month arrived, the atmosphere suddenly grew tense with the approaching Imperial Examinations. 

Lu Feng, Xu Moxiu, Yin Luochen, and Fu Yunjin were all set to participate.

In the Ninth Month, when the results were announced, only Fu Yunjin failed to pass. However, his trip to the capital had mainly been for leisure, so neither he nor his family felt too disappointed.

Among the other three, Xu Moxiu achieved the highest ranking, while Lu Feng placed the lowest. Xu Moxiu teased him saying that he was too distracted by his recent marriage.

Lu Feng remained unbothered, enjoying the comfort of his beloved wife in his arms. What did a lower ranking matter?

Zhao Huanxi, holding his son, watched the lively scene unfold with amusement.

On the 12th day of the Twelfth Month, Zhao Jiazhen gave birth to a daughter.

The little **Guniang** perfectly inherited her parents’ best features—soft, delicate, and adorably angelic. She completely captured her **Jiujiu**’s<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="mother's younger brother"></sup> heart.

Even before her postpartum confinement period (usually lasting about a month) was over, Zhao Huanxi had already sent gifts over a dozen times. Everything from bracelets and necklaces to a small wooden walker for when the child would begin learning to walk.

At the child’s full-month celebration, Zhao Jiazhen jokingly said to Yin Furen and Xu Nian'an, “Huanxi is practically obsessed with the idea of having a daughter.”

Yin Furen said, "Consecutive pregnancies are hard on a woman's body. Nian'an needs time to fully recover. As for you, even though you didn’t have a son this time, it’s best not to conceive again within two years. I have a gentle, harmless remedy you can drink before sharing a room (doing the deed) with your husband. Once you decide to have another child, you can simply stop taking it."

Zhao Jiazheng blushed and nodded in agreement.

<br>

After the New Year, the spring Imperial Examinations took place in the Second Month. This time, Yin Luochen did not pass, but Xu Moxiu and Lu Feng did, with Xu Moxiu once again ranking higher than Lu Feng.

At the Palace Examination (the highest imperial examination, presided over by the emperor), both were conferred the title of *Jinshi*<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="进士 - successful candidate in the highest imperial examinations."></sup>. After yet another round of testing, they both entered the Hanlin Academy as **Shujishi**.
<div class="author-note">
庶吉士 (Shujishi) - title of the temporary position in the Hanlin Academy conferred on meritorious candidates until the next examination. Once became Shujishi, they work as apprentice in the Hanlin Academy with the purpose of perfecting their skills of administration.
</div>

In the Ninth Month of the same year, Xu Moxiu married the young lady of the Lu Family.
