---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 165"
snippet: "Main Story Ends."
order: 165
novel_title: The Duke House's Ideal Daughter-in-law
toc_url: /TDHIDIL/
---

Xuan **Jie'er** and Nie Guocheng's wedding was scheduled for the Sixth Month of the following year. Her mother, Zhao Jiayi, hurried back to the capital with her three sons and two daughters before Zhao Huanxi's twentieth birthday.

This was the first time Xu Nian'an had seen Zhao Huanxi's eldest sister. In fact, it wasn't just her, after over a decade apart, even Zhao Huanxi no longer recognized his eldest sister.

Zhao Jiayi's appearance bore a striking resemblance to Yin Furen's, making her the most similar of Yin Furen's four daughters. However, their temperaments were entirely different. 

Zhao Jiayi was the matriarchal type, having perfectly inherited Yin Furen's decisive and commanding nature but none of her softness. Her every move exuded an authoritative air of unchallengeable resolve.

Before her return, Zhao Jiashan had taken on the role of the eldest among the three sisters. But upon her arrival, the stark contrast made it clear: a younger sister is just that—a younger sister. An elder sister, after all, is an elder sister.

Xu Nian'an leaned close to Zhao Huanxi and whispered, saying that although she hadn’t met their **Da Jiefu**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="eldest sister's husband"></sup> yet, she could already tell that no matter how imposing the general might be outside, at home, he was surely under the thumb of **Da Jie**.  

Zhao Huanxi chuckled and replied, “Isn’t that just like me?”

Xu Nian'an teased him, “Always trying to make yourself look good. Where’s your so-called imposing general demeanor?”

Zhao Huanxi defended himself, “I’ve got plenty of imposong general demeanor! Even though I don’t hold any official position anymore, my peers still treat me with respect and deference.”

Xu Nian'an burst into laughter and said, “Well, I suppose you are rather impressive.”

“You’re just humoring me. I can tell you don’t mean it,” Zhao Huanxi grumbled.

“And what can you do about it?”

“Nothing,” Zhao Huanxi admitted, deflated.

"Mom, Mom! Hui **Ge’er** stole my gourd!"  

While the young couple was whispering to each other, Zhao Jiaxian’s son Tai **Ge’er**, who is already five years old, came running in, tears streaming down his face as he lodged his complaint.

The adults burst out laughing upon hearing this.

Zhao Jiazhen teased, "Tai **Ge’er**, Hui **Ge’er** is only three years old. How can he snatch it from you?"

Tai **Ge’er** said nothing, just rubbed his eyes with his little fists and cried louder.

Zhao Jiaxian remarked, "Go find your **Jiujiu**. Ask **Jiujiu** to deal with Hui **Ge’er**."

Tai Ge’er obediently walked over to Zhao Huanxi, crying as he said, "**Jiujiu**, Hui **Ge’er** stole my gourd... wuwuuuuu<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="呜 is the sound of crying in chinese"></sup>…”

Zhao Huanxi stood up and declared loudly, "This is unacceptable! Stop crying, let’s go. **Jiujiu** will help you get your gourd back." With that, he took Tai **Ge'er**’s little hand and led him outside.

A short while later, the sound of Zhao Jiazhen’s daughter, Xiao **Jie’er**, crying came from the courtyard.

Yin Furen asked curiously, “Weren’t they going to deal with Hui **Ge’er**? How come it’s Xiao **Jie’er** who’s crying now?”

Zhao Jiazhen chuckled, “Let me go take a look.”

Zhao Jiaxian quickly interjected, “You stay put, I’ll go check.”

Zhao Jiazhen was now two months pregnant again.

Before long, Zhao Jiaxian came back holding Xiao **Jie’er** in his arms. Smiling, she said to Yin Furen, “No wonder Hui **Ge’er** grabbed a seal with one hand and an abacus with the other during his first birthday pick. This little one is so clever, it’s almost ridiculous.”
<div class="author-note">
抓周 is the custom of placing a variety of articles (writing brush, abacus etc) before an infant on its first birthday to see which one he or she picks up (The article chosen is supposed to be an indication of the child's inclinations, future career etc.).
</div>

Upon hearing this, Zhao Jiayi became quite interested and asked, "What happened?"

Zhao Jiaxian, holding Xiao **Jie’er**, sat down, laughing so hard she could barely catch her breath as she said, "Let Xiao **Jie'er**’s wet nurse tell you.”

Everyone turned to look at Xiao **Jie’er**'s wet nurse, who began explaining, "After Hui **Ge’er** snatched Tai **Ge’er**’s colorful gourd, he kept glancing over at the main room. When Xi **San Yé** led Tai **Ge’er** outside, Hui **Ge’er** quickly slipped the gourd into Xiao **Jie'er**’s hands. When Xi **San Yé** saw the gourd in Xiao **Jie'er**’s hands, he didn’t come over to take it back, instead saying he would take Tai **Ge’er** out to buy candied fruit. Once Xi **San Yé** had left, Hui **Ge’er** took the gourd back from Xiao **Jie’er**. Xiao **Jie’er** had been playing happily, but suddenly her gourd was taken away again, so she couldn’t help but cry.”

The whole room burst into laughter.

After the laughter subsided, Zhao Jiayi looked at Xu Nian'an and said, "Hui **Ge’er** must have noticed that Huanxi dotes on Xiao **Jie’er**, which is why he slipped the gourd into her hands and then took it back. At such a young age, he already has such keen observation and judgment. This child will surely accomplish great things in the future." 

Xu Nian'an dabbed at the tears of laughter at the corner of her eyes with her handkerchief and chuckled, "**Da Gujie**, stop praising him. First, he bullies his **Biao Ge**, then his **Biao Mei**. He's causing all sorts of trouble! He deserves a good beating. Where is he now?"

Zhao Jiaxian replied, "He said he was hungry. His wet nurse wanted to bring him here for a snack, but he refused and insisted on going back to Shenhui Courtyard with her. I suspect he's gone off to hide the gourd. Otherwise, when his father returns and sees the gourd in his hands, wouldn't he be in big trouble?”

The room erupted in another round of hearty laughter.

"That must be it! He has a little embroidered box where he hides all his small treasures, and no one is allowed to touch it. Huanxi wasn’t like that when he was young. Could it really be because he’s born in the year of the Rat, so he likes to hoard things?" Yin Furen said.

Zhao Jiazhen, thoroughly amused, replied, "If being born in the year of the Rat means you hoard things, then shouldn’t those born in the year of the Dragon be flying to the heavens? Jiaxian’s third son was born in the year of the Ox, he’ll probably end up plowing fields in the future!"

As soon as the words left her mouth, everyone burst into even louder laughter, unable to stop themselves.

Since Zhao Jiayi had brought the children back, she wouldn’t be returning to Xuanzhou. Her husband was also going to be transferred back to the capital next year.

Yin Furen was very pleased. All five of her children were now by her side.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

In the Sixth Month, just after Xuan **Jie'er**’s wedding was finished, Xu Nian’an was diagnosed as being pregnant again.

This time, it wasn’t like when she was pregnant with Hui **Ge’er**, where there were no symptoms. Morning sickness, aversion to fishy smells, cravings for sour foods, and constant drowsiness, she experienced it all.

Seeing this, Zhao Huanxi quickly hired an elementary tutor for their three-year-old Hui **Ge’er**, keeping the child from hanging around Xu Nian’an all day. As for himself, he took a full ten-month leave from the academy.

Master Yanmei was furious and scolded him, saying, “Why are you taking such a long leave just because your wife is pregnant? Your family isn’t some impoverished household lacking servants to help, do you need to serve tea or carry water yourself? You’re set to take the imperial exam next year, and now you’re asking for ten months off?”

Zhao Huanxi bowed and replied, “**Xiansheng**, my wife is pregnant, carrying the future of the Zhao Family. She endures countless hardships, and the least I can do is be by her side. Though there are servants at home to attend to her, her pregnancy causes her to struggle with rest and meals. If I stay at the academy, I’ll only be distracted by worry for her and unable to study properly. I know taking this leave will affect my preparations for the exam next year, but in my heart, she is more important than the imperial exam. One begs for **Xiansheng**'s understanding.”

He spoke so frankly that, even though Master Yanmei wanted to object, he couldn’t bring himself to. In the end, he sighed deeply and approved the leave.

Zhao Huanxi happily packed up his belongings and returned home. When he told Xu Nian’an about taking the leave, she spat out a mouthful of tea right onto his shoes.

“You’re not allowed to take such a long leave. At most… at most, you can take a month off before I give birth and a month after,” she said.

“I won’t! I want to stay home and take care of you,” Zhao Huanxi insisted stubbornly.

“I don’t need you to take care of me. If you delay your studies because of me, I’ll be upset,” Xu Nian’an replied.

Zhao Huanxi originally wanted to argue with her, but remembering her condition, he decided not to upset her. Changing the subject, he said, “Let’s not talk about that for now. I have something for you.”

He took out a blank-sealed envelope from his chest pocket and handed it to Xu Nian’an.

Xu Nian’an accepted it with suspicion and pulled out a shop deed with her name written on it.

“This is…” Xu Nian’an looked at him.

Zhao Huanxi raised his eyebrows slightly. “I bought it for you.”

Xu Nian’an was astonished. “Where did you get the silver?” After all, all their assets were managed by her.

"**Wu Mei** and Xiandu (Yu Mingxue’s courtesy name) recently opened a calligraphy and painting shop, right? I consigned one of my paintings there. It sold half a month ago for 3,800 taels of silver. I gave Xiandu and the others a 10% commission, 380 taels, and used the rest to buy this shop," Zhao Huanxi explained honestly.

Xu Nian’an was even more astonished. "A single painting for 3,800 taels? Since when have your paintings become so valuable?"

Zhao Huanxi replied, "Two years ago, when I went to Liaodong, Shang **Xiansheng** saw me off at Shili Pavilion and asked me to paint him a scene of Liaodong snow so he could compare it with the snow in the capital. Using Guangning’s refugee street as the backdrop, I painted a piece titled “First Snow” and sent it to him. He praised it, saying that while not a single stroke explicitly depicted snow, the painting exuded the essence of snow. He hung it in the Chi’er Hall of the Shang Residence, where he displayed all his prized treasures. Because of this, the name ‘Anxi Jushi’ gained a reputation in the art world.  
<div class="author-note">
安溪居士 (Ānxī Jūshì): "Layman Anxi." A Jūshì (Layman) is a term often used by scholars or literati to create a pseudonym (art name), often implying a Buddhist or Taoist detachment from worldly ambitions.
</div>

"I didn’t know about any of this until Qian Ming told me that someone near Xiangguo Temple was selling counterfeit paintings under the name ‘Anxi Jushi'. That’s when I realized my paintings had become valuable."

"A dignified heir of Jing Guogong, selling your own paintings, aren’t you afraid that, if it’s found out, it might damage your reputation?" Xu Nian’an asked.

Zhao Huanxi replied, "I neither stole nor robbed. Even if people eventually find out that Anxi Jushi is me, there’s nothing to fear. At most, they’ll say I’m greedy for money." He reached out to hold Xu Nian’an’s hand and added, "As long as it’s something you like, I’ll do my best to give it to you."

Xu Nian’an smiled faintly and said, "What I like even more is silver. Next time you sell a painting, just give me the banknotes directly, all right?"

Zhao Huanxi’s smile brightened with joy, and he nodded vigorously. "All right."

He watched as Xu Nian’an, smiling contentedly, carefully stored the shop deed in a cabinet. Following closely behind her, he tentatively asked, "So… can I stay home to take care of you?"

Xu Nian’an instantly turned hostile. “No!”

Zhao Huanxi: “......”

He shamelessly begged her for the entire afternoon, to no avail.

During dinner, he glanced at his son, who was earnestly digging into his meal with a small silver spoon. Sidling up to him with a hopeful grin, Zhao Huanxi asked, “Hui **Ge’er**, would you like Daddy to stay home with you every day?”

The little boy, already a sharp-featured child with sword-like brows and bright eyes, blinked his thick lashes at him, glanced over with a grain of rice stuck to his cheek, then coldly turned his head away, presenting the back of it. “No.”

Zhao Huanxi: “.....” A three-year-old, holding such a grudge, is this really appropriate? All he did was hire a tutor!

Zhao Huanxi tried to mend the father-son relationship, speaking gently. “Still mad at Daddy? Letting you learn to read and write is for your own good. Otherwise, in a couple of years, others might make fun of you for being illiterate.”

Hui **Ge’er** turned his face back, furrowing his tiny brows as he gazed at his young, handsome father. “If studying is so good, why are you skipping school?” 

Zhao Huanxi: “I... I’m doing it to take care of your mother.”

Hui **Ge’er** thought for a moment, his big, dark eyes widening in shock. “Are you going to drive Mingli **Yiyi**<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="auntie"></sup> and Songyun **Yiyi** away?”

“Of course not.”

“Then why would you need to take care of Mommy when Mingli **Yiyi** and Songyun **Yiyi** are already here?”

Zhao Huanxi: "......"

He carefully studied his son, beginning to doubt. Can a three-year-old truly have such sharp logic? Could someone have been teaching him?

With this thought in mind, he resentfully glared at Xu Nian’an.

Xu Nian’an pretended not to notice, smiling as she picked up a tender, springy fish ball, cut it into four pieces, and placed it into Hui **Ge’er**’s bowl.

The next day, Zhao Huanxi was sent back to Canglan Academy by Xu Nian’an.

When Master Yanmei saw the embarrassed and sheepish Zhao Huanxi in class, he first shot him a glare. Then, with a twitch of his beard, he broke into a satisfied smile.

<p style="text-align:center;">✦</p>

After the New Year, on the third day of the Second lunar Month, Xu Nian'an gave birth to a daughter, as lovely as jade and snow.

Zhao Huanxi was overjoyed and ecstatic. Every time he returned from the academy, he would take his daughter from the wet nurse and sleep with her.

Perhaps out of fear of pressing on the child and thus sleeping lightly, or maybe subconsciously not wanting to frighten her, Zhao Huanxi no longer had nightmares on nights he slept with Chun **Jie’er**.

When Chun **Jie’er** began to crawl, Zhao Huanxi participated in the autumn Imperial Examination. When the results were announced, Yin Furen, not holding much hope, sent Zhiyi and Zhi'er to check. To their surprise, they returned with the news that **San Yé** had passed—barely, as the last on the list.

Jing Guogong Residence held a grand banquet.

When Chun **Jie’er** learned to walk, Zhao Huanxi participated in the spring Imperial Examination. This time, Yin Furen personally took Xu Nian'an to check the results. Again, he passed, still as the last on the list.

Jing Guogong Residence once again held a grand banquet.

Each time he barely made it onto the list, Xu Nian'an couldn’t help but suspect that those in charge were deliberately cutting him some slack because of his meritorious service in the Liaodong campaign. 

Even before the Palace Examination began, Zhao Huanxi was already discussing plans with Xu Nian'an.

“Dong **Jiejie**, while **Zufu** is still in good health and Mother is still young, let me take you to Jiangnan.”

“To Jiangnan? Where?” Xu Nian'an was somewhat intrigued.

“Tonglu County. I heard they happen to need a county magistrate there. Tonglu has the Fuchun River and Tongjun Mountain. The scenery is said to be beautiful. A little effort in networking, and I can get the post,” Zhao Huanxi said.

Xu Nian'an hesitated. “That would mean four years away. What about the children?”

Zhao Huanxi said, “I’ve thought it through. Hui **Ge’er** will stay at home. My mother will take care of him, and Wenlin will look after his studies. You don’t need to worry. Chun **Jie’er** will come with us so she can experience the soft spring scenery of Jiangnan. What do you think?”

Xu Nian'an felt a little reluctant to part with Hui **Ge’er**.

Zhao Huanxi took her hand. “Dong **Jiejie**, in the future, I will inherit the title. Our days of freedom to travel far and wide may only last for these few years. If we subtract the carefree childhood and the heavy responsibilities of the future, the time we can truly claim for ourselves is limited to these years. If you’re really unwilling to part with Hui **Ge’er**, we can bring him along and find a tutor for him there.”

Xu Nian'an pondered deeply, then, with a firm resolve, said, "Fine, let's leave him at home." She and Zhao Huanxi were going to take up posts in another region, and she couldn't only think of themselves, she had to leave something for Yin Furen to hold on to as well. It would be a sacrifice for Hui **Ge’er**, who would be separated from his parents for four years.

The young couple made their decision. Zhao Huanxi quietly worked behind the scenes, and after the Palace Examination, he was indeed appointed as the magistrate of Tonglu County.

The day the imperial decree arrived at Jing Guogong Residence, Yin Furen was caught completely off guard, she was stunned. She angrily said, “There are so many government offices in the capital, why did they send you to some remote place? You’ve already made such great contributions to the court!”

Zhao Huanxi comforted her, saying, “Let’s not dwell on the past. His Majesty the Emperor’s arrangement might be to help train me. Rather than lingering in a government office in the capital to gain seniority, I’d much rather go to the countryside and do some real work for the people.”

Looking at her increasingly steady son, Yin Furen knew that, at this point, opposing him would be of no use. Still, with concern, she asked, “What about the child? They’re so young, and it’s such a long distance. What if they have trouble adjusting to the new place?”

Zhao Huanxi reassured her, “Hui **Ge’er** is growing older, and his studies should come first. I plan to leave him at home. Chun **Jie’er** will come with Nian’an and me. There are famous physicians on Tongjun Mountain, so Mom, *you* don’t need to worry too much.”

Yin Furen sighed. At least her beloved eldest grandson would stay behind, which gave her some comfort.

A few days later, Zhao Huanxi left the capital with his family to take up his post. Xu Moxiu, Qian Ming, and the others saw them off at the Ten-Mile Pavilion.

“Don’t worry about home. Lu **Xiong** and I will take care of things,” said Xu Moxiu, who was now an Imperial Compiler<sup class="footnote-ref" data-footnote="编修(biānxiū)-imperial compiler charged with the task of writing the national history, etc."></sup> at the Hanlin Academy. He was still as serious as ever and gave Zhao Huanxi a parting reminder: “Take good care of my sister and Chun **Jie’er**.”

Zhao Huanxi nodded in acknowledgment.

“You’re the lucky one. For the next four years, you’ll have the freedom to roam the seas and skies, while I’ll still be stuck at home, under the watchful eye of my parents,” Qian Ming said enviously. Then, with a longing look, he went to Xu Nian'an and picked up Chun **Jie’er** from her arms. “Little Chun’er, let **Bofu** hold you one more time. After this, I won’t be able to hold you for four years. When little Chun'er grow up, marry Xin **Gege** (probably his son), okay? Then you won’t call me ‘**Bofu**’, but ‘Dad’.’”

“You wish! When Chun **Jie’er** grows up, she’ll be the wife of the Lu Family,” Lu Feng said as he took Chun **Jie’er** from Qian Ming’s arms.

“What are you talking about? What ‘your family's wife, his family's wife’? Have you asked me, the father, if I approve?” Zhao Huanxi grumbled, taking his daughter back from Lu Feng and holding her protectively in his arms. “You and your brat, no one’s going to lay a hand on my daughter.”

The group had long been accustomed to his doting behavior toward his daughter, and after a round of joking, they bid each other a reluctant farewell.

<br>

In the Fourth Month weather, the sky was clear and blue, the spring breeze warm, and the willow trees lined the road.

Zhao Huanxi, riding on horseback, turned back and saw the curtain of the carriage rolled up. Inside, the bright faces of his wife and daughter smiled at him.

His heart warmed, and he returned their smiles.

At this moment in his life, what more could he ask for?

<div class="aewoo-ramble">
  <div class="ramble-title">⟡ Aewoo’s Ramble ⟡</div>
  <p>And that's the end of the main story! Don't worry we still have 4 exciting side stories~</p>
</div>

<br><br>
